---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-10-26
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2019-10-26
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-26-json-ld",
        "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-10-26",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-10-26",
            "endDate": "2019-10-26",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Rob Sanderson"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Adam Soroka"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Pierre-Antoine Champin"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David I. Lehn"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}

**Date:** 2019-10-26

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2019Oct/0009.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/10/25-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Rob Sanderson, Adam Soroka, Pierre-Antoine Champin, David I. Lehn, Dave Longley

**Regrets:** Gregg Kellogg, Benjamin Young, Jeff Mixter, Harold Solbrig

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Rob Sanderson

**Scribe(s):** Adam Soroka

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Approve minutes of previous call
{: #section1}

> **Proposed resolution: Approve minutes of previous call: [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-18-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-18-json-ld)** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: Approve minutes of previous call: [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-18-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-18-json-ld)***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

### 2. Announcements / Reminders
{: #section2}

**Rob Sanderson:** We are rapidly apporaching CR  

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* next week's call will be 1h earlier in Europe

**Rob Sanderson:** 5PM central europe, 4PM UK  

### 3. Issues
{: #section3}

#### 3.1. Register profiles with IANA
{: #section3-1}

**Rob Sanderson:** we have some new URIs for values of profile  
… they must be registered with IANA  
… bigbluehat offered to do this  

> ***Action #1: register profiles with IANA (Benjamin Young)***
{: #action1 .action}

**Ivan Herman:** this should go via W3C channels, not directly  
… not sure what the mechanism is for profiles  
… I will ask  

> ***Action #2: check with plh if he is the right contact person (Ivan Herman)***
{: #action2 .action}

**Rob Sanderson:** for the annotation WG it was easy  
… no more topics to be discussed on calls  

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/4?fullscreen=true](https://github.com/orgs/w3c/projects/4?fullscreen=true)

#### 3.2. application/jsonld issue #287
{: #section3-2}

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/287](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/287)

**Ivan Herman:** am representing the DID WG  
… it is in that capacity that I raised this question  

**Dave Longley:** this might be better if people could rad over the DID spec issue first,  
… but it's not clear how to handle mimetypes  
… this is documented at the discussion there (at DID)  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** the goal is to be able to declare application/did+jsonld?  
… ?  

**Ivan Herman:** Yes. It's unclear whether application/did+ld+json is acceptable  

> *Dave Longley:* no one does this^ ... but it doesn't seem illegal ... and questionable what tools would do.

**Ivan Herman:** there is no current registered mimetype that uses two + signs  
… so we are not sure if this is really possible  

**Dave Longley:** VC WG did not choose a mimetype  

> *Dave Longley:* VCWG didn't pick a MIME type that i can see

**Ivan Herman:** that is a typical case where this might make sense  

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://www.w3.org/TR/annotation-protocol/#annotation-retrieval](https://www.w3.org/TR/annotation-protocol/#annotation-retrieval)

**Rob Sanderson:** for Annotations, we went with a profile  
… you can trigger a file extension from a profile, says IANA. If so, that would fulfill the requirements listed on the [DID issue comment](https://github.com/w3c/did-spec/issues/1#issuecomment-545103700)  
… but I don't have a reference for that  
… we would have to go search the minutes  

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://www.iana.org/assignments/profile-uris/profile-uris.xhtml](https://www.iana.org/assignments/profile-uris/profile-uris.xhtml)

**Ivan Herman:** we defined no extension for annotation  

> ***Action #3: find reference to file extensions for profiles re annotation (Rob Sanderson)***
{: #action3 .action}

**Rob Sanderson:** if we did the application/jsonld, processors would have to know about it, which would be a normative change to the document  

**Ivan Herman:** it would change the documents to allow this new media type in parallel to the older one  
… it is simple for the document, but causes a lot of change elsewhere, because JSON-LD processors would have to change, too.  

**Rob Sanderson:** we aren't going to decide this today  
… if there is no change here, we are on-track for CR  
… a change here would push CR back by at least 2 weeks with Thanksgiving looming  

> *Dave Longley:* we want this group to enable other groups to be able to extend jsonld MIME type w/ file extension support -- just a question of whether we need to register `application/jsonld` or not ... either way should provide some advice to extenders on what to do

**Dave Longley:** we did discuss this in the 1.0 days, but it might not recorded in issues  

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-spec/issues/1#issuecomment-545103700](https://github.com/w3c/did-spec/issues/1#issuecomment-545103700)

**Rob Sanderson:** if you _can_ register a file extension to a profile, than that is what we could recommend  
… how does application/jsonld solve the problem?  

**Ivan Herman:** because then you can do application/did+jsonld  
… no multiple plus signs  

**Rob Sanderson:** this came up in XML days (application/xhtml+xml)  

**Ivan Herman:** i couldn't find any example of this (multiple plus signs) in IANA  
… if I have a doc that is application/did+ld+json, and a JSON-LD proc, then that proc _should_ handle it fine regardless of the DID aspect.  
… if I do application/did+json, then a JSON-LD proc may or may not work correctly  
… (handle it as JSON-LD)  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** at the discussion at the DID WG, there is discussion of an alias  
… is this an official construct of IANA?  

**Ivan Herman:** I don't know, but i think not; it just reflects that two media types may share suffix (but I may be wrong)  
… I propose that azaroth digs up the remark from IANA about file extensions and we'd come back to the issue  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** a profile approach could look pretty complicated to some people  
… it might be a shame, in terms of marketing  

> *Dave Longley:* +1

**Rob Sanderson:** dlongley, the two WGs can meet at the next JSON-LD WG meeting  
… to discuss this  

> ***Action #4: comment in issue inviting DID WG to JSON-LD WG regular call next week to discuss (Rob Sanderson)***
{: #action4 .action}

#### 3.3. closable issues
{: #section3-3}

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/269](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/269)

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/69](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/69)

### 4. Adjourn :)
{: #section4}

---


### 5. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): Approve minutes of previous call: [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-18-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-18-json-ld)

### 6. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): register profiles with IANA (Benjamin Young)
* [Action #2](#action2): check with plh if he is the right contact person (Ivan Herman)
* [Action #3](#action3): find reference to file extensions for profiles re annotation (Rob Sanderson)
* [Action #4](#action4): comment in issue inviting DID WG to JSON-LD WG regular call next week to discuss (Rob Sanderson)
