---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-10-04
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2019-10-04
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-10-04-json-ld",
        "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-10-04",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-10-04",
            "endDate": "2019-10-04",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Benjamin Young"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Pierre-Antoine Champin"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Benjamin Young"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gregg Kellogg"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ruben Taelman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David I. Lehn"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tim Cole"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Harold Solbrig"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}

**Date:** 2019-10-04

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2019Oct/0000.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/10/04-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Gregg Kellogg, Ivan Herman, Pierre-Antoine Champin, Dave Longley, Ruben Taelman, Benjamin Young, David I. Lehn, Tim Cole, Harold Solbrig

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Benjamin Young

**Scribe(s):** Pierre-Antoine Champin, Benjamin Young

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Approve all the minutes of several previous calls
{: #section1}

> *Benjamin Young:* Telco : [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-09-06-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-09-06-json-ld)

> *Benjamin Young:* TPAC day 0 (Wednesday breakout): [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-09-18-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-09-18-json-ld)

> *Benjamin Young:* TPAC day 1: [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-09-19-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-09-19-json-ld)

> *Benjamin Young:* TPAC day 2: [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-09-20-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-09-20-json-ld)

> **Proposed resolution: approve the past four call minutes: 09/06, 09/18, 09/19, 09/20** *(Benjamin Young)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +0.25

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: approve the past four call minutes: 09/06, 09/18, 09/19, 09/20***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}


### 2. Announcements / Reminders
{: #section2}

#### 2.1. How're those implementations coming?
{: #section2-1}

**Benjamin Young:** no real announcement this week.  

> *Benjamin Young:* known implementations: [https://json-ld.org/#developers-description](https://json-ld.org/#developers-description)

**Benjamin Young:** Any feedback on implementations?  
… existing implementations could use help at least with running tests.  
… so that's an easier way to contribute perhaps.  

**David I. Lehn:** the tests are no longer in the same repository,  
… need some advice on how to run the 1.1 test suite,  
… and know which ones are 1.0 and which ones are 1.1  

**Gregg Kellogg:** there are currently two locations, API and Framing  
… There may be an option block in each test, to indicate the spec version (1.0 or 1.1).  
… A 1.1 processor should not run the tests marked 1.0 ;  
… Those with no specific version should be run by all processors.  

> *Ruben Taelman:* [https://github.com/rubensworks/rdf-test-suite.js](https://github.com/rubensworks/rdf-test-suite.js)

**Gregg Kellogg:** Some may change as we are moving to the lazy evaluation for processing mode.  

**Ruben Taelman:** I made a JS tool for my own parser;  
… should be reusable by other JS implementations.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I have a similar tool for Ruby.  

**Benjamin Young:** several people may have problem with running the tests,  
… not realizing that they have moved from the CG to the WG.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the 1.0 repository has been updated to point to the WG repo.  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/json-ld/tests](https://github.com/json-ld/tests)

**Gregg Kellogg:** There was mostly a directory containing all the tests.  
… The current structure is quite similar.  

**Benjamin Young:** what's the best way for developers to know how to run the tests?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the spec points to the test manifest  
… includes instructions about how to run the tests.  

**Benjamin Young:** most people come first to the syntax document,  
… and that one has no test suite.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we can put a link from the syntax doc to the api test suite.  

> ***Action #1: add test suite links to syntax doc (Gregg Kellogg)***
{: #action1 .action}

**Benjamin Young:** recommendations are welcome, about how to make this process smoother.  
… as issues on one of the repos.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the test suites now live on github,  
… where we can not set some specific HTTP headers.  
… There was a suggestion to mirror them on the W3C website.  

**Ivan Herman:** I can put it somewhere.  
… But I don't know how to automatically synchronize them.  

**Ruben Taelman:** CI tools (e.g. Travis) can be used to automatically deploy the tests on each commit.  

**Ivan Herman:** but that would mean that Travis has access to the W3C server.  

**Ruben Taelman:** you can put some secret information that only Travis can see.  

**Ivan Herman:** we have to be very clear about the process before we contact the admin team.  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt)

**Benjamin Young:** the Web Platform Tests use WPT-serve  
… a python-based server that allows to set up headers  
… used by Web Annotation  

**Ivan Herman:** we should go that way  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the manifest they use is incompatible with our needs  
… Their needs are browser-centered.  

**Benjamin Young:** I was envisioning a hybrid solution,  
… this is what the Web Annotation group did.  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/web-annotation-tests/](https://github.com/w3c/web-annotation-tests/)

**Gregg Kellogg:** really what we need is moving a subtree around, with an `.htaccess` file for headers.  

> ***Action #2: run down where best to host JSON-LD tests with a proper HTTP server going forward (Benjamin Young)***
{: #action2 .action}

**Gregg Kellogg:** I suggest we archive the obsolete test repo [https://github.com/json-ld/tests](https://github.com/json-ld/tests)  

> *Benjamin Young:* rust implementation wip [https://github.com/kroeg/jsonld-rs](https://github.com/kroeg/jsonld-rs)

**Benjamin Young:** this repo might be referenced, as a submodule, by existing repos,  
… like kroeg's Rust implementation  

**Gregg Kellogg:** working from a local copy is common,  
… but it should work the same on HTTP  

**Ruben Taelman:** old implementations might still be bound on those tests,  
… we might break them by archiving the repo  
… rather keep it live, with a big disclaimer  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://help.github.com/en/articles/archiving-a-github-repository](https://help.github.com/en/articles/archiving-a-github-repository)

**Benjamin Young:** archived depo are still accessible, they are just closed for contribution  

**Gregg Kellogg:** this is exactly what we want to do  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** it might be a good idea to commit an OBSOLETE file before archiving it  
… so that folks know they should change  

### 3. Horizontal Review Updates/Status
{: #section3}

**Ivan Herman:** there is a separate PR on the `@direction` by gkellogg  
… appart from a minor comment on the i18n namespace,  
… Addison seems happy with the PR  

### 4. Issues
{: #section4}

#### 4.1. `@direction` progress and future
{: #section4-1}

> *Benjamin Young:* See [Issue Syntax#1§1](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/11)

> *Benjamin Young:* See [Pending PR on `@direction`](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/pull/276)

**Benjamin Young:** no much to discuss; just to make sure everyone is aware of the PR  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I will only merge it when the tests pass;  
… currently working on my implementation;  
… maybe only merge when we have an API PR.  
… The syntax PR does not address the ability for a language map to contain value objects with `@value` and `@direction`.  
… Currently they only support strings.  
… So there is no way to override the direction in a language map.  

**Ivan Herman:** I think we can defer this to a future version.  

**Benjamin Young:** is there an issue for this already?  

**Ivan Herman:** raise an issue, so we can make it clear if we decide to postpone it.  

> ***Action #3: create issue on values of language maps not including `@direction` (Gregg Kellogg)***
{: #action3 .action}

**Dave Longley:** the syntax doc proposes 2 or 3 ways to represent this in RDF in order to roundtrip.  
… We should only recommend one.  
… We would have to maintain them for many years.  
… My preferred option would be to drop the `@direction` by default,  
… with an option to serialize it in the way we think is the best for future RDF.  
… That would force people to update their RDF lib,  
… but that what we were expecting if a dedicated WG had been created.  

**Ivan Herman:** half of your wishes are already fulfilled:  
… by default, the `@direction` is dropped.  
… We picked two options for roundtripping:  
… * the i18n family of datatypes,  
… * the "compound literal" approach (not a very good name).  
… At the meeting in Fukuoka, even around the table,  
… there was no clear consensus about which one was the best option.  
… The idea is to let the community decide which one they want to use.  

**Dave Longley:** Why not a 3rd option where we add a property to a literal?  

**Ivan Herman:** because this is not valid RDF.  
… The failure to create a WG shows that the RDF community is not willing to change the core of RDF.  
… The advantage of the two proposed approaches is that they work with the deployed RDF infrastructure,  
… even though they require some application-level knowledge to be used.  

**Dave Longley:** What I'm hearing is "more technical depts, and no interop"  
… If this is something that people need, and we introduce a hack to get it work,  
… people will adopt the hack.  

**Ivan Herman:** you can call it a hack, but this is the only thing that people seem ready to accept.  
… Trying to force RDF to change is a bigger hack in my opinion.  

**Dave Longley:** JSON-LD 1.0 did influence the RDF WG at the time, to extend RDF.  

**Ivan Herman:** this is the big difference; there *was* an RDF WG at the time.  
… There is none at the moment, nor can I foresee one in the near future.  

**Dave Longley:** sometimes, standard follow implementations, rather than the opposite.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** I'd argue that the proposed solutions are not so hacky from and RDF point of view  
… I prefer the datatype solution  
… but none of them seem a scandal to me  
… if there was an RDF WG working on this, they would consider one of these as the future standard  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to pchampin

**Gregg Kellogg:** I agree, these solutions are reasonable from the point of view of RDF.  
… Also, the default option is to drop direction.  
… The majority of data will not use direction, and not produce RDF differently than today.  

**Dave Longley:** dropping it is a good default;  
… but I expect Digital Bazaar being force to keep it in some way.  
… For example, in VC, when the graph is signed, we need to keep the whole information.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** from a digital signature point of view,  
… I would not consider the direction to be relevant.  
… Would two values differing only by direction be really different?  

**Dave Longley:** this is scary; that could be turned into a terrible vulnerability.  

**Ivan Herman:** I would like a resolution to allow Greg to merge the direction PR;  
… this has lingered for too long.  

> **Proposed resolution: the WG is happy to merge #276, but leaves it to the editors whether they do it now or after the API changes is also in a PR** *(Ivan Herman)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +0

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> ***Resolution #2: the WG is happy to merge #276, but leaves it to the editors whether they do it now or after the API changes is also in a PR***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

---


### 5. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): approve the past four call minutes: 09/06, 09/18, 09/19, 09/20
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): the WG is happy to merge #276, but leaves it to the editors whether they do it now or after the API changes is also in a PR

### 6. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): add test suite links to syntax doc (Gregg Kellogg)
* [Action #2](#action2): run down where best to host JSON-LD tests with a proper HTTP server going forward (Benjamin Young)
* [Action #3](#action3): create issue on values of language maps not including `@direction` (Gregg Kellogg)
