---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-08-30
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2019-08-30
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-08-30-json-ld",
        "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-08-30",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-08-30",
            "endDate": "2019-08-30",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Rob Sanderson"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Pierre-Antoine Champin"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Rob Sanderson"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Adam Soroka"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gregg Kellogg"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Benjamin Young"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David I. Lehn"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***
{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2019-08-30

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2019Aug/0020.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/08/30-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Ivan Herman, Adam Soroka, Rob Sanderson, Dave Longley, Gregg Kellogg, Pierre-Antoine Champin, Benjamin Young, David I. Lehn

**Regrets:** Ivan Herman, ruben taelman

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Rob Sanderson

**Scribe(s):** Pierre-Antoine Champin, Rob Sanderson

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Scribe Selection
{: #section1}

### 2. MInutes
{: #section2}

**Rob Sanderson:** the scribe's job should be easy today  

> **Proposed resolution: Approve minutes of the previous call [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-08-23-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-08-23-json-ld)** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +0

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: Approve minutes of the previous call [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-08-23-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-08-23-json-ld)***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 3. Announcements / Reminder
{: #section3}

**Rob Sanderson:** TPAC approaching  
… I suggest we have a call next week, but not the following (just before TPAC)  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

**Rob Sanderson:** Any objection?  

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

### 4. Horizontal Reviews
{: #section4}

> *Rob Sanderson:* See [horizontal review issues](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Ahorizontal-review)

**Ivan Herman:** re i18n, I have pinged Richard again. He said he would look at it last week.  
… As far as we are concerned, I consider that we are done.  
… The proposal for direction in RDF literal got no feedback from the community,  
… so the ideal solution will not fly.  

**Benjamin Young:** I reached out to the a11y group  
… The current suggestion is to send our answers to the checklist to the mailing list,  
… see if anyone cares.  

**Rob Sanderson:** I pinged the Security group this week, no response yet.  
… We will see at TPAC.  
… The Privacy people did engage, but have nothing much to add.  
… We can also meet them at TPAC.  

### 5. Issues
{: #section5}

#### 5.1. Final short names
{: #section5-1}

> *Rob Sanderson:* See [WG issue #103](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/103)

**Rob Sanderson:** Ivan raised this issue. What should 'jdonld' point to in the future?  
… 1.0 as it currently does, or the most recent version of the spec?  
… There has been some discussion on the list.  
… The suggestion is that 'jsonld' always points to the most recent,  
… and 'jsonld10' and 'jsonld11' point to respective versions.  

**Ivan Herman:** I have to check with the webmasters what exactly the rules are.  
… If the WG is fine with this solution, I can start the discussion with them.  
… Some people like pointin to the very last working draft,  
… I'm not sure that's a good idea, but we can discuss this later.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** my concern is that this will change what 'jsonld' points to...  

**Ivan Herman:** we need not solve this before CR  

**Rob Sanderson:** are there other specifications who reference JSON-LD 1.0 via `jsonld`?  
… this could lead to strange things for readers,  
… especially if those spec say something like "JSON-LD does not support this",  
… while in fact JSON-LD 1.1 does.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** Just wanted to point out that JSON-LD pointing to something else is a matter of perspective. Currently it does point to the latest version  
… I would argue it doesn't change what we point to. Rob's arguemtn about other specs is a good point.  

**Ivan Herman:** to the best of my knowledge, no W3C spec referencing JSON-LD extend it in a way that azaroth suggests  
… Groups out there may have done something nasty in that line,  
… but well, they shouldn't have been nasty.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** if a spec has particular version dependency, they should point to a precise version  

**Benjamin Young:** Activity Streams has its own media-type, because JSON-LD didn't support lists of lists.  
… What would be the impact on testing for other specs?  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to dlongley

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* for the curious: [https://www.specref.org/?q=json-ld](https://www.specref.org/?q=json-ld)

**Dave Longley:** I think that the benefit of having the latest version come up for 'jsonld' outweights the potential costs.  

> ***Action #1: contact w3 team to determine possibility of json-ld shortname pointing to latest version (Ivan Herman)***
{: #action1 .action}

**Gregg Kellogg:** what does this mean for us? Sounds like "nothing" in the short term,  
… except changing our references from 'jsonld' to 'jsonld10'.  

**Ivan Herman:** correct  

#### 5.2. Framing blank nodes
{: #section5-2}

> *Rob Sanderson:* See [Framing #27](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/27)

> *Dave Longley:* See [a particular comment](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues/27#issuecomment-519274388)

**Dave Longley:** I raised this issue while trying to frame VC-like data,  
… asked if other implementations had the same issue.  
… This example generate a strange artifact ("ex:subject" at the bottom).  

**Gregg Kellogg:** this artifact does not produce any triple,  
… we can remove it by filtering on type. But is the output still correct?  
… The issue may not be in framing, but somewhere else (maybe compaction?).  

**Rob Sanderson:** to try and summarize: in the original data, there is exactly one named graph.  
… inside that is a proof which is a graph container.  
… The frame generates the subject as a separate graph?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** (something about this behavior being legitimate with other data)  

**Dave Longley:** may be this could be solved with `@include`?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** there might be other holes in framing which we have not seen yet...  
… We should try to flesh out the test suite further.  

#### 5.3. expandContext
{: #section5-3}

> *Rob Sanderson:* See [API issue #141](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/141)

**Gregg Kellogg:** Ruben suggest it would be more convenient if we could describe options as IRIs rather than strings.  
… In the manifest, options are described by key-value pairs, where values are pairs described in the WebIDL description.  
… WebIDL does not support IRIs, it is not our job to do it.  
… So I think we should reject this PR.  

**Dave Longley:** I agree  

> **Proposed resolution: Reject #141, as underlying webIDL spec does not use IRIs, and not our place to recast into them** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> ***Resolution #2: Reject #141, as underlying webIDL spec does not use IRIs, and not our place to recast into them***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

#### 5.4. algorithmic readability
{: #section5-4}

> *Rob Sanderson:* See [API PR #132](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/132)

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** We discussed this a while ago, and I decided to try and make the algorithms a bit easier to read  
… Thought it would be convenient to have another view of it for easier to have a global understanding before diving into the details  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* See [Example for the algorithm](https://pr-preview.s3.amazonaws.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/132.html#algorithm)

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** Tried on one of them to use `<detail>` that allows folding/unfolding of the algorithm, and I think it does the job providing we use an appropriate title for the detail to give a good summary  
… problem of printing. After some exchange in the issue I added some js that unfolds during printing, so the printed version is complete  
… dlongley suggested that an unfold all button would be useful  
… only question is about ergonomics -- where should the button be? Hovering so it's always there, or somewhere particular?  
… perhaps also a keyboard shortcut for it?  

**Ivan Herman:** In general I'm all for this. Looking for an example for where to put the button  
… I'm looking for an example about where to put his button.  

> *Ivan Herman:* See [OWL Primer example with buttons](https://www.w3.org/TR/2012/REC-owl2-primer-20121211/)

**Ivan Herman:** in the OWL primer, you can switch between syntaxes.  

> *Benjamin Young:* buttons are specifically here [https://www.w3.org/TR/2012/REC-owl2-primer-20121211/#OWL_Syntaxes](https://www.w3.org/TR/2012/REC-owl2-primer-20121211/#OWL_Syntaxes)

**Ivan Herman:** There is a set of buttons to do that, somewhere in the introduction.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we have an similar example in the API.  
… How much can we get with CSS selectors? Are there any a11y considerations?  
… It shouldn't be considered as normative change, but could this lead us to change the structure of some algorithms?  

**Ivan Herman:** we should ask Avneesh Singh to have a look at pchampin's example.  

**Rob Sanderson:** We has a similar button in annotation-model, to switch between Turtle and JSON-LD examples,  
… this caused much change in layout, because Turtle was much shorter.  

**Ivan Herman:** that's why I suggest just one, at the top  

**Gregg Kellogg:** plus each individual `<details>` has its own button  

> ***Action #2: contact Avneesh Singh regarding a11y of fold/unfold button (Ivan Herman)***
{: #action2 .action}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to complete

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to complete

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to complete

> *Benjamin Young:* +1 to complete

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** we seem to agree that the printed version should be complete, with all details unfoleded  

**Gregg Kellogg:** could this be done via CSS `@media` query rather than JS?  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** unfortunately not  

**Gregg Kellogg:** what about epub?  

**Ivan Herman:** if the JS is self contained, it should work  

**Rob Sanderson:** what if JS does not work?  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** it will be printed in its current state: any detail that you opened is printed open  

**Rob Sanderson:** that seems acceptable  

### 6. Miscellaneous
{: #section6}

**Rob Sanderson:** we should go to CR in a short number of weeks after TPAC  

**Ivan Herman:** and we have to decide how long we want to be in CR  
… depends how advanced the implementations are  

**Gregg Kellogg:** data-related specs should be more advertised at TPAC  

> ***Action #3: email Coralie regarding announcement at TPAC (Rob Sanderson)***
{: #action3 .action}

**Benjamin Young:** we will have allies in the WoT group  
… I'm reaching out the JSON schema group, to help them liaise with W3C.  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/japan/fukuoka](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/japan/fukuoka)

---


### 7. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): Approve minutes of the previous call [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-08-23-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-08-23-json-ld)
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): Reject #141, as underlying webIDL spec does not use IRIs, and not our place to recast into them

### 8. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): contact w3 team to determine possibility of json-ld shortname pointing to latest version (Ivan Herman)
* [Action #2](#action2): contact Avneesh Singh regarding a11y of fold/unfold button (Ivan Herman)
* [Action #3](#action3): email Coralie regarding announcement at TPAC (Rob Sanderson)