---
layout: minutes
date: 2019-09-06
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2019-09-06
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-09-06-json-ld",
        "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2019-09-06",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2019-09-06",
            "endDate": "2019-09-06",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Rob Sanderson"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Benjamin Young"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Adam Soroka"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ruben Taelman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gregg Kellogg"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Pierre-Antoine Champin"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David I. Lehn"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jeff Mixter"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***
{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2019-09-06

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2019Sep/0000.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2019/09/06-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Rob Sanderson, Ivan Herman, Dave Longley, Ruben Taelman, Benjamin Young, Gregg Kellogg, Adam Soroka, Pierre-Antoine Champin, David I. Lehn, Jeff Mixter

**Regrets:** Ivan Herman

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Rob Sanderson, Benjamin Young

**Scribe(s):** Adam Soroka

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Approve minutes of previous call
{: #section1}

> *Benjamin Young:* See [Minutes of Aug. 30](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2019/2019-08-30-json-ld)

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +0

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: last week's minutes minutes approved***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 2. Announcements / Reminders
{: #section2}

#### 2.1. TPAC following week
{: #section2-1}

**Benjamin Young:** no call next week because of TPAC  

> *Benjamin Young:* See [Fukuoka page, link to agenda](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/F2F/2019.09.Fuk)

#### 2.2. Others?
{: #section2-2}

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** we have a funded WoT project starting in February  
… might be some JSON-LD interest  
… I was wondering if we still want a note that mentions this  
… might some people in this project that might contribute to that  

**Ivan Herman:** just a note, not a rec  
… no problem publishing that if we can get it in before closing the WG  

**Benjamin Young:** still some time to do that  

**Ivan Herman:** how much time we have to do this depends on how we manage time generally  
… we have until June or July and a note can be published at the very end  
… we're in pretty good shape re: testing and impl  
… we may need less time to complete CR stage  
… we could publish early and close the group early  

**Gregg Kellogg:** thinking about the YAML note, we automated the transformations  
… CBOR might or might not be  
… as easy  

**Ivan Herman:** not likely to be as easy  

**Gregg Kellogg:** you can dump JSON into CBOR, altho it does many other things  
… other than number representation I'm not sure there is much of a barrier  
… more important is the transform CBOR -> JSON  
… if there are people with experience at CBOR who want to help, we should keep that open  
… unless/until we learn that we don't have enough time  

**Benjamin Young:** and of course we have the Best Practices doc  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** okay, I'll ask those folks and see if anyone is into it  
… before TPAC  

### 3. Horizontal Review Updates
{: #section3}

> *Rob Sanderson:* See [relevant issues in our repo](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Ahorizontal-review)

**Rob Sanderson:** we're in good shape  
… we have alerted Accessibility folks  
… we've done their checklist  
… ty bigbluehat  
… I've told Privacy that we think we are in good shape  
… they responded with thanks and no further issues  
… ivan, what's the process from here?  

**Ivan Herman:** tag it as done and when we write a request to go to CR we can point to it  

**Rob Sanderson:** DONE  
… we did the Security questionnaire in June  
… I pinged them a few times with no response  
… and latterly I told them we consider it done, but if they have any concerns to raise them with us at TPAC  
… I heard nothing back  
… I say we call this done  

**Ivan Herman:** that works, and the same goes for Internationalization  

**Rob Sanderson:** we are good, even if we only got one official sign off  

**Ivan Herman:** what about Accessibility  

**Benjamin Young:** I've heard no problems from them  
… I bet someone will catch us in the hallway at TPAC and tell us that we are fine  

**Ivan Herman:** we're probably low on the priorities  

**Rob Sanderson:** if Avneesh can work with it that seems like as good an Accessibility review as we get  

**Ivan Herman:** no he looks only at the accessibility of the docs themselves  
… different question  
… that's not the same as true review of the rec itself and problems that might arise from its use  

**Rob Sanderson:** finally we have the [short names' issue](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues/103)  

**Ivan Herman:** it turns out we can do what we wanted  
… when we publish the rec from that point on JSON-LD with no qualifier will point at the latest rec  
… you can also do JSON-LD/latest and there are some other combinations, look at the issue for details  
… but our most important point is that LSON-LD itself will point at the latest  

**Rob Sanderson:** I put together some nice stats for Coralie  
… she said they were great  
… and added them to the Members' update for September  

**Ivan Herman:** I also spoke with her and she was happy for the info and put it various Members' comms  
… I think she might put together a slide for Jeff  

**Gregg Kellogg:** too many TPACs have gone by that would make you think that the only thing W3C does is HTML  

**Rob Sanderson:** at the last one the Wed was disheartening  
… we can turn that around  

### 4. Issues
{: #section4}

#### 4.1. Framing blank nodes
{: #section4-1}

**Rob Sanderson:** last discussion we agreed that we couldn't solve it on a call  
… so gkellog and dlongley went off to look at it  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we found a problem in a framing test where `@container : @graph` got mangled in re-expansion  
… a bug in the compaction algo  
… if the value is an array, it puts them in an `@included` block  
… i tried [s solution] but it turned out not to be defined well enough  

**Rob Sanderson:** all of that is solved and merged?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** yep  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* See [API PR #146](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/146)

> *Gregg Kellogg:* See [API PR #145](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/pull/145)

> **Proposed resolution: Close framing #27 as not being the issue, and the real issues being addressed is api #143, solved by api PRs # 145 and #146** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* RESOLVE: Close framing #27 as not being the issue, and the real issues being addressed is api #143, solved by api PRs # 145 and #146

> **Proposed resolution: Close api #143 as resolved by api PR #145 and #146** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> ***Resolution #2: Close api #143 as resolved by api PR #145 and #146***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

#### 4.2. we are out of issues!
{: #section4-2}

> *Rob Sanderson:* See [Open Syntax issues](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues)

**Rob Sanderson:** now looking at syntax issues  
… we have two that are really styling  
… and two that we have already deferred  

> *Rob Sanderson:* See [Open API issues](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues)

**Rob Sanderson:** for API we have two open non-deferred issues  

> *Rob Sanderson:* See [Open Framing issues](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-framing/issues)

**Rob Sanderson:** for framing we have issue 7 and two that we deferred to future versions  

> *Rob Sanderson:* See [Generic & Meta issues](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg/issues)

**Rob Sanderson:** in the WG metalist of issues  
... just some editorial updates on bigbluehat and myself

**Rob Sanderson:** there are the horizontal reviews and short names issue and actions that we talked through earlier  

**Ivan Herman:** what guiding principles document?  

**Rob Sanderson:** the one from the very beginning  
… we never adding things like horizontal review to those guiding principles, but it's a bit late  

**Ivan Herman:** I see something "updating json-ld.org" on bigbluehat  

**Benjamin Young:** I will work on that before TR — it's in the CG  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** there is unrecorded issue about the fact that the specs for 1.1 refer to 1.0 docs via the short name JSON-LD, without qualifier  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I think I fixed that  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** perhaps I wasn't seeing the latest versions  

**Gregg Kellogg:** yes, I used the timestamped URI  
… what Respec does for JSON-LD uses the unversioned URI  
… which would have had that problem when we updated  
… and our internal links already use precise URIs  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** okay, all good!  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Respec does keep breaking and Marcos said he would fix these things  
… once those are done we can publish another heartbeat draft  
… that might it for us  

**Ivan Herman:** it might be good to look for a "preview CR" request, to see what we need for that  

> ***Action #1: send to -chairs example CR request (Ivan Herman)***
{: #action1 .action}

**Rob Sanderson:** after which we can look at the example and work with it  
… other issues?  
… I mean any new technical issues  
… if not, we're done with technical issues and we'll spend TPAC carousing wildly  
… we'll request CR after TPAC  
… we need to get people to get onto implementation  
… and submitting reports thereof  
… that al conform to some part of the work  
… and for all features there are at least 2 impls that do that  
… which is not to say that any given impl must do all features-- that's not true  

### 5. Implementation Report
{: #section5}

> *Rob Sanderson:* See [Draft implementation report](https://raw.githack.com/w3c/json-ld-api/reports/reports/index.html)

**Gregg Kellogg:** I have software to collate the reports that get sent in and generate this file  
… this includes all the tests that were included  
… at the beginning there is a discussion of requirements for submissions  
… submissions are found in a directory which is processed by the software  
… producing an HTML output with a column for each impl and each test the result obtained  
… there are details like test options that we don't find here  
… it is many pages  

> *David I. Lehn:* add a browser stress test and add syntax highlighting for all the tests input/output

**Ivan Herman:** I have seen this type of product from gkellogg before and I think it's perfect  
… i understand that the tests in this report cover all of JSON-LD< including 1.0 stuff  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we have 1.0 stuff, 1.1 stuff, and both  
… we don't include 1.0 stuff, just stuff that is relevant for both  
… we test the entire behavior  

**Ivan Herman:** is it worth indicating what's new? the stuff that is new in 1.1?  

**Rob Sanderson:** seems valuable  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the data is there  
… we could annotate the tests as appropriate  

**Ivan Herman:** in the column for test you could add a symbol to indicate something new for 1.1  

**Rob Sanderson:** for test defns, which are quite long, could we make it a separate HTML file?  
… rather than including it in-line  

**Gregg Kellogg:** or we could create HTML test manifests and link to them  
… in json-ld.org we had some PHP that listed out the tests  
… we could do something template-driven to the same purpose  
… then we update the report so that the test links point at the right places int eh test manifestos  

**David I. Lehn:** should we not put the version numbers of the various libraries on their?  
… support changes with time.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** if you look in "What to Submit" we could put a slot for version and then use that in the "Description of test subject"  

**David I. Lehn:** did the URI format change much?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** nope, same thing  

> ***Action #2: add software version DOAP property to report template (Gregg Kellogg)***
{: #action2 .action}

**David I. Lehn:** what does it do if you skip tests?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I think it says something like "Untested"  

> ***Action #3: look at taking out test definitions and replacing with links to test manifests (Gregg Kellogg)***
{: #action3 .action}

**Gregg Kellogg:** there is Pass, Fail and some other statuses  
… . doesn't matter than much what the current level of conformance but we could grease the wheel  

**David I. Lehn:** python code hasn't yet been updated  

**Rob Sanderson:** it currently asks people to submit Turtle — could we make that JSON-LD  

**Gregg Kellogg:** sure, we could  
… but devs seem happy with Turtle  
… but I would work with JSON-LD if someone gives it to me  

### 6. TPAC face to face arrangements
{: #section6}

> *Adam Soroka:* [shared discussion of travel arrangements]

**Rob Sanderson:** has anyone asked for Observer status?  

**Ivan Herman:** not that I saw, and you would have been notified  

**Gregg Kellogg:** should we arrange a Wed update for people?  

**Rob Sanderson:** given where we are at, that seems reasonable  

> *Rob Sanderson:* See [Session ideas for the Wednesday](https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC/2019/SessionIdeas)

> ***Action #4: add session idea for [https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC/2019/SessionIdeas](https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC/2019/SessionIdeas) (Gregg Kellogg)***
{: #action4 .action}

**Ivan Herman:** wait I was wrong!  

> *Ivan Herman:* See [Registration list for the F2F](https://www.w3.org/register/tpac2019/registrants#meeting-85)

**Ivan Herman:** there are quite a number of requestors  
… experience shows that people do come up but rarely stay around  
… bigbluehat is signed up  
… and two guys coming, registered as group participants, who have never been on any of our calls  
… . someone from Siemens and someone from Canton consulting  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** I don't know them well but met one  

> *Dave Longley:* The LD Security session [https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC/2019/SessionIdeas#Linked_Data_Security](https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC/2019/SessionIdeas#Linked_Data_Security) may be of interest to people here

**dlongely:** manu is trying to put together a LD security topic on Wed  

**Ivan Herman:** and the DID WG has been announced  
… dlongley, you will be on it?  

**dlongely:** yep  

**Rob Sanderson:** I will try to participate  
… and it's the top of the hour. See (some of) you in japan  

**Ivan Herman:** we will have a call the week after TPAC  

### 7. Adjourn
{: #section7}

---


### 8. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): last week's minutes minutes approved
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): Close api #143 as resolved by api PR #145 and #146

### 9. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): send to -chairs example CR request (Ivan Herman)
* [Action #2](#action2): add software version DOAP property to report template (Gregg Kellogg)
* [Action #3](#action3): look at taking out test definitions and replacing with links to test manifests (Gregg Kellogg)
* [Action #4](#action4): add session idea for [https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC/2019/SessionIdeas](https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC/2019/SessionIdeas) (Gregg Kellogg)
