---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-03-20
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2020-03-20
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-03-20-json-ld",
        "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2020-03-20",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2020-03-20",
            "endDate": "2020-03-20",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Rob Sanderson"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Pierre-Antoine Champin"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Rob Sanderson"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gregg Kellogg"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ruben Taelman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Adam Soroka"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Benjamin Young"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tim Cole"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Harold Solbrig"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David I. Lehn"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}

**Date:** 2020-03-20

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2020Mar/0011.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/03/20-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Gregg Kellogg, Rob Sanderson, Ruben Taelman, Adam Soroka, Pierre-Antoine Champin, Benjamin Young, Ivan Herman, Tim Cole, Harold Solbrig, David I. Lehn

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Rob Sanderson

**Scribe(s):** Pierre-Antoine Champin, Rob Sanderson

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Announcements
{: #section1}

**Rob Sanderson:** any update on editorial changes?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** some non-normative changes  
… `@prefix=false` millions of need some precision in the syntax document  
… requires some examples  
… Most other pull-requests are about tests.  

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* One more: clarification in the "inverse context creation" algo;

**Gregg Kellogg:** One more: clarification in the "inverse context creation" algo;  

#### 1.1. no-response API editorial changes
{: #section1-1}

**Gregg Kellogg:** some steps were reordered, and an "otherwise" was missing.  

**Rob Sanderson:** we resolved to close a number of issues if we did'nt hear about them until today,  
… and we didn't.  
… Greg (kasei) did some changes related to the issues he submitted  
… which fixed some tests, but broke others.  
… He was happy with those issues being closed.  
… Greg W was worried that nobody implemented Framing from scratch.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** Framing has changed quite a lot since 1.0.  

#### 1.2. Other announcements / reminders?
{: #section1-2}

**Gregg Kellogg:** there are signs of life of various repositories.  

**Harold Solbrig:** Some work is happening on RDFlib.  

**Ivan Herman:** I recently hit some issue with RDFlib,  
… it seemed that nobody was touching the core of the lib.  
… It does not work with recent versions of Python 3.  

**Harold Solbrig:** yes, there has been much activity recently.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** One of my old PRs for rdflib was accepted :)  

**Rob Sanderson:** any other implementation?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I switched from jsonld-js to pyld,  
… solved a few issues there.  

**Rob Sanderson:** another issue we ran into.  
… we have a pipeline generating many JSON-LD files,  
… converting them to RDF and storing them in a triple store.  
… Context processing is taking a lot of time.  
… Some caching would be beneficial.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we have that guidance stating that implementations should cache contexts,  
… something that was asked in particular by danbri about the schema.org context.  
… Standard HTTP caching can be used,  
… but my implementation also has an ad-hoc cache, storing contexts in their internal representations.  
… We might recommend a set of techniques for doing that.  

**Harold Solbrig:** we find ourselves modularizing contexts a lot,  
… rather than having one big context covering everything.  
… So we rely on caching a lot.  

**Rob Sanderson:** gkellogg, Greg W and I will have a call about this next week.  
… If anyone wants to join...  

> *David I. Lehn:* jsonld.js has some support for caching too

**Gregg Kellogg:** in jsonld.js and pyld, the internal representation of contexts is basically a dictionnary.  
… caching the result of "context processing" is quite easy.  
… last week, I said I wanted to merge the expand and toRdf test suites.  
… there has been a big PR unifying the naming, which should make this easier.  

### 2. Technical Issues
{: #section2}

**Rob Sanderson:** I don't think we have any tech issue?  

**Harold Solbrig:** I found one yesterday, actually...  

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/339](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/339)

**Harold Solbrig:** the term IRI ends with a gendelim, so it looks like a valid prefix  
… RDFlib uses it as a prefix, even when `@prefix=false` is set.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** it is an internal representation issue, it has nothing to do with JSON-LD  
… the API document is clear, `@prefix=false` prevents the term to be used as a prefix  
… in expansion or compaction.  
… But the syntax documents needs some clarification.  

**playground:** [http://tinyurl.com/rpddoss](http://tinyurl.com/rpddoss)  

**Harold Solbrig:** I don't go to the API doc for this kind of issue.  
… Fixing the syntax document is good for me.  

**Rob Sanderson:** this kind of example can be useful for having human-readable types  
… Is it worth puting an editorial note about spaces?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we made a provision for the empty string, and terms ending with a colon,  
… but where would we stop? What about tabs?  

> *Rob Sanderson:* acj hsolbrig

**Harold Solbrig:** this kind of example will creep up more and more.  
… When importing data from spreadsheets, spaces (in headers) may be common.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we could put some restrictions on terms used as prefix...  
… In CSVW we addressed this kind of issues, using URI patterns.  

### 3. Notes
{: #section3}

**Rob Sanderson:** rubensworks, any progress on the Streaming note?  

#### 3.1. Streaming Note
{: #section3-1}

**Ruben Taelman:** I opened a new PR this morning. Not sure it needs to be reviewed.  
… Once merged, I will ask people to go to through the whole doc.  

> *Ruben Taelman:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-streaming/pull/4](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-streaming/pull/4)

> *Ruben Taelman:* [https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-streaming/](https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-streaming/)

**Ruben Taelman:** Everything I want to have in that note is present now.  

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* .. Feel free to open an issue if you think something is missing.

**Gregg Kellogg:** have you considered having a kind of test suite for streaming?  

**Ruben Taelman:** we could add a few tests (`@context` and `@type` not in the correct order)  
… Let me add it to my list.  
… That suite would be quite small. There are only a few restrictions.  

#### 3.2. CBOR
{: #section3-2}

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** no activity there on CBOR, France is stuck in confinement right now  

#### 3.3. Best Practices?
{: #section3-3}

> *Rob Sanderson:* [crickets]

**Harold Solbrig:** we would be interested in getting access to the original order in JSON lists,  
… in order to apply our own sorting algorithms.  
… But I understand this goes beyond the scope.  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://www.w3.org/TR/csv2json/](https://www.w3.org/TR/csv2json/)

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://www.w3.org/TR/tabular-metadata/](https://www.w3.org/TR/tabular-metadata/)

**Gregg Kellogg:** you should look as CSVW, it might help address your use case  

### 4. AoB?
{: #section4}

> *Ruben Taelman:* [https://www.rubensworks.net/blog/2019/03/13/streaming-rdf-parsers/](https://www.rubensworks.net/blog/2019/03/13/streaming-rdf-parsers/)

**Ruben Taelman:** a while ago, I wrote this blog post.  
… Would it be valuable to link to that within the note. Is it appropriate?  

**Ivan Herman:** It is a note, so I don't think this would be a problem.  

**Ruben Taelman:** I will include it then.  

#### 4.1. Streaming, redux
{: #section4-1}

**Ruben Taelman:** Any specific process for finalizing the note?  

**Ivan Herman:** we have to have a formal resolution, then go through the webmaster.  
… This is easy, mostly administrative (getting an ID).  

**Rob Sanderson:** any preferred short name for it?  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* json-ld11-streaming?

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> **Proposed resolution: Short name for streaming note should be json-ld11-streaming** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: Short name for streaming note should be json-ld11-streaming***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

**Rob Sanderson:** anything else?  

> *David I. Lehn:* here's some JSON-LD helps save the world news: [http://blog.schema.org/2020/03/schema-for-coronavirus-special.html](http://blog.schema.org/2020/03/schema-for-coronavirus-special.html)

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://schema.org/CovidTestingFacility](https://schema.org/CovidTestingFacility) - maybe build stuff with this to help folks :)

**Benjamin Young:** shows how JSON-LD and CSVW can be useful.  

> *Benjamin Young:* twitters about it [https://twitter.com/westurner/status/1239938629310410752](https://twitter.com/westurner/status/1239938629310410752)

### 5. Adjourn
{: #section5}

---


### 6. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): Short name for streaming note should be json-ld11-streaming
