---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-04-03
title: JSON-LD Telco — 2020-04-03
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-04-03-json-ld",
        "name": "JSON-LD Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "JSON-LD Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2020-04-03",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "JSON-LD Telco",
            "startDate": "2020-04-03",
            "endDate": "2020-04-03",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Rob Sanderson"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Benjamin Young"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Rob Sanderson"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gregg Kellogg"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Harold Solbrig"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ruben Taelman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Pierre-Antoine Champin"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David I. Lehn"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Manu Sporny"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# JSON-LD Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}

**Date:** 2020-04-03

See also the [Agenda](https://www.w3.org/mid/CABevsUGWVWyFJys5Vzq4CVkp4y4vrWZ6Lwgvt70PZ5pxreDTZQ@mail.gmail.com) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/04/03-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Benjamin Young, Gregg Kellogg, Harold Solbrig, Ruben Taelman, Ivan Herman, Pierre-Antoine Champin, David I. Lehn, Manu Sporny

**Regrets:** Dave Longley

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Rob Sanderson

**Scribe(s):** Benjamin Young, Rob Sanderson

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Rob Sanderson:** any announcements or reminders?  
… any recent changes?  

### 1. Changes to the documents
{: #section1}

**Gregg Kellogg:** there's been some activity on getting some implementation reports  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-api/reports/](https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-api/reports/)

**Gregg Kellogg:** here's the latest version ^^  
… one is pyLD, but there's lots more PRs to merge  
… no tests for JSON-LD yet, because they've got PRs pending  
… there are 3 implementations from rubensworks--which show great progress  
… there were also some issues around compaction  
… which came up along the way  
… he noted a number of issues which are all editorial  
… so they're all in PR 440 on the API repo  
… mostly compaction wording  
… rubensworks added a test  
… and I think that's it  

**Rob Sanderson:** some some editorial and lots of implementation report updating  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I didn't see any mass communication about tests  

**Benjamin Young:** I'll get something up today routing people to the community group  

**Gregg Kellogg:** one thing about doing a poll would give us one place to find the info later  
… whereas in the CG it'd be across lots of emails  
… and the CG isn't really the right place...since this is a WG effort  

**Benjamin Young:** I'd prefer to put it on lists, so anyone can see it future or present  

**Rob Sanderson:** sending an email seems easiest to do  
… the WBS is...no offense...not the most user friendly thing  
… I'm fine with either, though  

**Benjamin Young:** we could curate the email output  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the important thing is to get it out there  

> ***Action #1: send out APB about implementations--asking for folks to respond about their status (Benjamin Young)***
{: #action1 .action}

**Rob Sanderson:** any updates from implementations?  
… I'll reach out to "my" Greg to see about getting his report in  

**Gregg Kellogg:** think we decided to freeze tests today  

### 2. Process
{: #section2}

**Rob Sanderson:** so, ivan sent the draft recharter to communications, who sent it to the AC, and we have some early support  

**Ivan Herman:** so the feedback given was very general--not specific to our charter  
… but an issue for charters in general  
… the criticism was that members +1 charters, but they should be clear about why they support it  

**Rob Sanderson:** so, when the actual AC vote comes out, we can have our respective AC reps say a bit more about why they care and are supporting the work  
… and that will hopefully encourage others (through modeling good behaviour)  

**Harold Solbrig:** should we resubmit letters with more details then?  

**Rob Sanderson:** I wouldn't bother as this isn't the vote  
… when the AC vote actually goes out, is when the more persuasive support would be helpful  

**Ivan Herman:** so, really all they have to say is yes or no  
… and this advance content is very loose  
… so hsolbrig if you want to be supportive on the list, that's totally fine  
… I wouldn't give this whole conversation much weight yet anyway  
… it's not an official thing yet at least  

**Rob Sanderson:** yeah, it was meant to be "don't feel obliged to do it" (to hsolbrig), not discouragement  
… so, is there a process timeline unrolling at this point?  

**Ivan Herman:** this advance notice doesn't have a real formal deadline  
… the AC voting period is set to 4 weeks  
… and due to the COVID drama, that may be extended to 6 weeks  
… at the end of April, we'll have some administrative things to do  
… and then we could start the formal procedure to make it happen  

**Rob Sanderson:** if you have charter comments, please put them in  
… anyone have a link handy for the charter?  
… please make issues in that repo, and if time, PRs are welcome!  

> *Ivan Herman:* [charter repo](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-wg-charter/)

**Rob Sanderson:** any other comments?  

### 3. Issues
{: #section3}

**Rob Sanderson:** there don't seem to be any open issues for our REC track docs  
… which aren't simply editorial  
… anyone know otherwise  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/428](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/428)

**Gregg Kellogg:** just that one from azaroth about a better example for included blocks  
… and 428 which I summed up as basically saying you don't have to implement it the way the spec says  
… the desire was that we describe the type of all the algorithm properties  
… specifically that activeProperty be null  
… I think it'd be overkill  
… and that a careful reading would reveal that anyhow  

**Rob Sanderson:** there was an ask to have the exact Domain for each input variable  

**Gregg Kellogg:** and I think he meant Range  

**Rob Sanderson:** I do think that's overkill  

**Gregg Kellogg:** if WebIDL were more widely scoped, then this stuff would probably be useful  
… but as it is, doing this work probably doesn't help much  

**Rob Sanderson:** and just makes lots of extra work  
… I'm sure it'd be lovely for a statically typed language  
… but wow...major document expansion  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I don't think any other W3C spec has as much explanation around this as we do already  

**Rob Sanderson:** we ok with closing "wontfix" for the remaining part of the suggestion?  

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> **Proposed resolution: Close api #428, won't add possible variable values to documentation** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: Close api #428, won't add possible variable values to documentation***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 4. Notes Issues
{: #section4}

**Rob Sanderson:** any other issues? besides my need to improve the examples I provided?  

#### 4.1. Streaming Note
{: #section4-1}

**Rob Sanderson:** so, the streaming note. rubensworks could you give us an update?  

> *Ruben Taelman:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-streaming/pull/11](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-streaming/pull/11)

**Ruben Taelman:** this morning I opened a PR for making ivan's suggested changes  
… which were related to `@type`  
… so the wording has been changed to match that  
… and I updated the test suite  

**Rob Sanderson:** and the only issue...meaning that everything otherwise folks thing it's in good shape/  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I think it's great  
… I intend to implement it once I'm done with these other things I'm doing  

**Ivan Herman:** before going to CBOR  
… when to do we formally plan to formally publish the streaming note?  

**Rob Sanderson:** how about we discuss it next week, and then publish it after that?  

**Ivan Herman:** it seems to be mature  
… I'd like to get it out there  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I think we can review it between now and then  
… and then publish it after that  

**Ivan Herman:** I'm in favor of that  

**Rob Sanderson:** so, give it a week? everyone up for that?  
… so, let's do that then. we'll aim to publish next week--pending this interim week of feedback time  

#### 4.2. CBOR Note
{: #section4-2}

**Rob Sanderson:** k. manu had a comment about the CBOR note  

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-cbor/issues/6](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-cbor/issues/6)

**Rob Sanderson:** so, on to CBOR  
… manu provides some useful implementation experience  
… the tl;dr version is the conversion rate improvements are valuable  
… is there anyone (pchampin maybe) who might be able to work on it?  
… or should we see if manu and co can provide directed feedback?  
… or should we manage the expectations of the community?  
… by stating we're not going to do it this time, so manu et al, don't feel hard done by when in june there isn't a note  

**Manu Sporny:** we would not feel hard done by if there wasn't a note  
… very nice for you to consider our feelings, though. ^_^  
… a general +1 for the CBOR stuff  
… it would be nice to get the ball rolling on it  
… it's been more and more important to encode the JSON-LD parts into something like CBOR  
… we've been saying it'd be CBOR-LD for some time, with nearly not progress on it  
… that's due to our being overwhelmed with other work...sadly  
… so someone else would have to lead the charge on CBOR-LD  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** I'll try and free up some time in the coming week  
… I didn't really want to do this one on my own  
… and didn't get much back from Victor  
… so even if the Digital Bazaar folks could just check my work, that'd be helpful!  
… we'll see what I can get done in the next week  

**Manu Sporny:**   
… so, thank you a tone!  
… there are some necessary features we'd need to be in there  
… but don't yet have a strong suggestion for how those should be written up  
… even just processing the feedback in issue 6  
… starting there would be helpful  
… and then gathering more input from the community would help also  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** I must say I had a quick look at the issue, there's a lot of things that go way over my head  
… but I can try to frame some things  
… there seem to be two parts  
… JSON to CBOR stuff  
… which I feel comfortable about  
… but it might be naive due to my limited experience  
… for the CBOR compression, though, I'd need help  

**Manu Sporny:** happy to help!  

**Gregg Kellogg:** it's helpful that it tells you that you're muted  
… if you're working in the CBOR-LD domain  
… and you're referencing a JSON-LD context  
… what happens...or what if that's reversed  

> *Manu Sporny:* +1 to be concerned about those things that gkellogg just outlined. :)

**Rob Sanderson:** any other comments on the CBOR stuff?  

#### 4.3. "initial" context
{: #section4-3}

**Rob Sanderson:** so, one more item is "base context" -- or the recommended context, or something  

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-rc](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-rc)

**Rob Sanderson:** there is a repo json-ld-rc  
… so, this wouldn't be a default, but a recommended one  
… so a helpful thing that other contexts could lean on to get started  
… and with some recent work around context resolving  
… having an initial context would potentially save quite a lot of processing  
… this isn't really a note  
… but it does seem like something we could work on  
… before June  
… thoughts?  

**Harold Solbrig:** I very much like seeing that there  
… but I think it'd behoove us to not stray to far  
… some of these are already wrong...for instance  
… we should keep this to the very generic stuff  
… everyone's trying to do this, but not in consistent ways  
… which then doesn't help at all  

**Benjamin Young:** We should just match RDFa's initial context and then perhaps a process to keep them in sync  
… no consistency currently, and this could provide that  
… within a single project's readme, I found schema.org referenced and prefixed in different ways  
… written by one person, so not even internally consistent in a document  
… so valuable  
… but devil in the details :)  
… Shouldn't be out of sync with others, and should be consistent  

**Gregg Kellogg:** yeah, I think self-consistency goes, that's mostly been a monkey on ivan's back  
… and the CSV Web nominally stays in sync with that  
… so, certainly, we should contemplate a process for this  
… in as much as those recommendations have contexts that they recommend  
… we could consider not simply referencing it, but pulling it in  
… but then we'd very likely have naming conflicts  
… so we should maybe at least say why not  

**Harold Solbrig:** one possible step further, is that in the tooling it'd be danged handy to say, "I just want to start working in this context"  
… in rdfLib, you can pull in some of the contexts and get going  
… while it's not this group's thing per se, making it available programmatically would be valuable.  

**Rob Sanderson:** how 'bout if we reset the JSON-LD context file to the initial best practice to the `@type`/`type`, `@id`/`id` etc and the RDFa initial context  
… and then we can discuss in other issues  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 ro bigbluehat

**Benjamin Young:** I think we need to heavily reconsider the `@id`/`id` mapping  
… it runs a fowl of so much existing JSON  

**Rob Sanderson:** yeah...that ship has sailed....  

**Benjamin Young:** let's unsail it, because I think it's a bad idea  

**Rob Sanderson:** yeah, this is why we need a process  

**Harold Solbrig:** yeah, it took me awhile to even know this was more than prefixing...  
… clearly separating namespace prefixes form other JSON aliases would be helpful--as I've said before  
… once we can tweak the `@prefix` grammer a bit, to call them out more clearly, it would simplify it  
… but here, I wonder if we want to have two separate contexts--one for aliases and one for prefixes  

**Rob Sanderson:** yep, that could work  

**Ivan Herman:** RDFa and JSON-LD are different  
… in RDFa it's much more difficult...or ugly...to set the prefixes  
… so it's much more useful to have an initial list  
… personally, I would trim this list very radically  
… I agree with what bigbluehat says about prefixing  
… but as azaroth said, that ship has sailed  
… so maybe that's how it has to be  
… on the other hand, I'd retain the Dublin Core things, the RDF, OWL, and XSD ones, and Schema.org because it's everywhere, and then remove all the others  
… it should really just target the core of JSON-LD  
… and DC and Schema are used by "everyone and his brother"  

**Benjamin Young:** just make sure the prefixes always match what's in RDFa  
… doesn't have to be the same list...but shouldn't conflict  

**Ivan Herman:** agreed  

**Rob Sanderson:** I've made some initial issues, please send feedback  
… thanks all for coming!  
… we'll talk next week  
… bigbluehat and I will get the blog post out  
… everyone read the streaming note  
… and hopefully we can get it pushed next week  

---


### 5. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): Close api #428, won't add possible variable values to documentation

### 6. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): send out APB about implementations--asking for folks to respond about their status (Benjamin Young)
