---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-02-14
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2020-02-14
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-02-14-json-ld",
        "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2020-02-14",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2020-02-14",
            "endDate": "2020-02-14",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Benjamin Young"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Rob Sanderson"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Pierre-Antoine Champin"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Rob Sanderson"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gregg Kellogg"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tim Cole"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jeff Mixter"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Harold Solbrig"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David I. Lehn"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***
{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2020-02-14

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2020Feb/0007.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/02/14-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Rob Sanderson, Pierre-Antoine Champin, Gregg Kellogg, Ivan Herman, Tim Cole, Jeff Mixter, Harold Solbrig, David I. Lehn

**Regrets:** Ruben Taelman

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Benjamin Young, Rob Sanderson

**Scribe(s):** Pierre-Antoine Champin, Rob Sanderson

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Approve minutes
{: #section1}

> **Proposed resolution: Approve Minutes of previous call: [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-02-07-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-02-07-json-ld)** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +0

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: Approve Minutes of previous call: [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-02-07-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-02-07-json-ld)***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 2. Process
{: #section2}

**Rob Sanderson:** now that we are not talking about normative details,  

> **Proposed resolution: Automatically approve call minutes from now on 1 week after the call, as the calls are not focused on normative content** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

**Rob Sanderson:** may be we don't need a formal approval of the minutes of the previous week  

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> ***Resolution #2: Automatically approve call minutes from now on 1 week after the call, as the calls are not focused on normative content***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

### 3. Issues
{: #section3}

#### 3.1. Integrity feature disposal
{: #section3-1}

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/108](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/108)

**Rob Sanderson:** from someone on the mailing list working on Ethereum  
… interested in SRI  
… gkellogg pointed out that we have deferred this,  
… but that the `@import` mechanism offers an extension point.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** did he raised a different issue, which I referenced in 108?  

**Rob Sanderson:** this was an email on the list.  
… does anyone feel differently, or should we keep it deferred?  

**Ivan Herman:** that's the only thing that we can do now.  

> **Proposed resolution: Continue to defer work on context metadata (syntax #108)** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Jeff Mixter:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

> ***Resolution #3: Continue to defer work on context metadata (syntax #108)***
{: #resolution3 .resolution}

#### 3.2. `@prefix` usage
{: #section3-2}

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/329](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/329)

**Harold Solbrig:** I have a number of prefixes ending with underscore,  
… rather than hash or slash (so not considered as prefix by default);  
… it would be nice to be able to set `@prefix=true` globally,  
… instead of specifying per term.  

**Rob Sanderson:** would that apply to *all* terms in the context?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** this would apply to all terms except those explicitly marked with `@prefix=false`  
… and this would be meant to be used in subcontexts.  

**Harold Solbrig:** the ramifications are big...  

**Gregg Kellogg:** this is actually what 1.0 was doing initially;  
… there was an errata to prevent just any IRI to be used as a prefix  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* See [errata mail](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-comments/2018Jan/0002.html)

> *Gregg Kellogg:* See [JSON-LD 1.0 errata](https://www.w3.org/2001/sw/wiki/JSON_LD_Errata)

**Harold Solbrig:** let me time to ponder on it a little more  

**Rob Sanderson:** gkellogg any more issues we should discuss?  

#### 3.3. Issue 265 Confusing algorithm handling `@context` values
{: #section3-3}

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* See [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/265](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/265)

**Gregg Kellogg:** a few are still open.  
… kasei needs to check if the wording satisfies him.  
… For 265 the PR has been merged, the text is up-to-date.  

### 4. CR2 Timing
{: #section4}

**Rob Sanderson:** assuming that the remaining issues can be closed today,  
… when can we publish CR2?  

**Ivan Herman:** we have to generate an editor's draft, and submit it to Ralph.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** unless something comes up, we are ready for this.  
… The only pending issue is 265, we are waiting for him to agree to close the issue.  
… We decided to remove the section "changes since CR", as this is a new CR.  

**Ivan Herman:** but we need something in the Changes section, explaining what lead us to make a new request.  
… Explain what substantial change made us do it.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** The substantial change was the definition of the JSON datatype.  
… But before that, all the small changes that we have been tracking were not substantial.  

**Ivan Herman:** those can be summarized, but the substantial one must be clearly described.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** ok, I have to recreate the change section.  

**Ivan Herman:** which documents are we republishing?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the datatype definition is in the syntax document.  
… This impacted he API document, from which we removed bits about canonicalization,  
… and referred to the Syntax doc itself.  

**Ivan Herman:** Ok, what about the Framing document. Any substantial change?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** (listing the changes)  
… The algorithms were updated along the lines of what we did in the API document.  

**Ivan Herman:** that's borderline; we must be very clear about the reason of the change  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we can do it  
… I'll update the Syntax and API document, explaining that.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** if I remember correctly, we deferred a proposal about the algorithm. And after the datatype came up, we went to CR, so that should be listed as substantial?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** those changes didn't change the behaviour  
… so I would not consider them as substantial.  

**Rob Sanderson:** assuming kasei can close his pending issues today,  
… when do you (gkellogg) think we could be ready?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** some PR will need reviewing by pchampin,  
… I would say tuesday or wednesday  

**Ivan Herman:** wednesday would be ideal for me  

**Gregg Kellogg:** can we use echidna now?  

**Ivan Herman:** (confusing answer)  
… need to remove `editorial=true` to republish Syntax and API, then put it back  

### 5. Best Practices
{: #section5}

#### 5.1. Typing gotchas
{: #section5-1}

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-bp/issues/14](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-bp/issues/14)

**Rob Sanderson:** `@type` sometimes does not behave as anticipated, even by bigbluehat  
… how can we describe it in the BP document, so that people understand the intent of `@type`  
… The process proposed last week was to go through issues, discuss what we want to say,  
… and have someone write it properly.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** Type coercion is only for strings. Native types do not need coercion, and are hence insensitive to this  

**Rob Sanderson:** would the BP entry be about type coercion, or about the interaction thereof with native types?  
… the gotchas for type coercion seems to be about creating "rdf:type" triples  
… (or rather not being able to do it)  
… has anyone tried to explain that?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** the core purpose of JSON-LD is to provide context, helping to interpret JSON,  
… especially how to interpret strings in that JSON.  
… It might intersect with "type-coercion with native value",  
… as some people are wanting to add triples to an object.  
… Adding triples is the job of framing.  

**Rob Sanderson:** and we fixed `@default` in framing, when applied to `@type`.  
… Do we have an issue for that in the BP,  
… we cause indeed we run into that issue a lot?  
… points to consider

* You can't create new rdf:type triples by setting `@type` in the context. Use Framing and `@default` (note that 1.0 did not allow `@default for @type`)
* Core purpose is context for the JSON to interpret it -- especially how you interpret strings.
* Native values + type coercion: No need to coerce native types, because they're not strings.

#### 5.2. Multilingual Patterns
{: #section5-2}

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-bp/issues/5](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-bp/issues/5)

**Rob Sanderson:** adam had noted that there is some confusion about how to use multilingual data values alongside language maps  

**Ivan Herman:** I think two things are intertwined here  
… the first is the use of language map, possibly with direction,  
… the second is the use HTML literals.  
… I would prefer to separate them in BP.  
… gkellogg's proposal was a hack to use almost the same syntax for two cases,  
… which is pretty convoluted. It works, but should this be BP?  

**Gregg Kellogg:** in one case, this is a language map; in the other case, this is data indexing.  

**Ivan Herman:** yes, but using language tags for data-indexing is misleading.  
… It mislead me.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** language maps reflect in the RDF abstract syntax; data indexing is lost in the process.  

**Ivan Herman:** the example is convoluted because it uses `rdf:HTML`,  
… which I don't think is very frequent.  

**Rob Sanderson:** should we also discuss `@none` in this context?  

**Ivan Herman:** yes  

#### 5.3. Base Context
{: #section5-3}

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-bp/issues/9](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-bp/issues/9)

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-rc](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-rc)

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-rc/blob/master/context.jsonld](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-rc/blob/master/context.jsonld)

**Rob Sanderson:** the dedicated repo has one issue, requesting reviews on its content  
… This document lists core aliases and core prefixes.  
… Please review if before next week, and raise any issue for missing terms,  
… or the way the context is defined.  

**Ivan Herman:** One radical way of doing it is to put in the BP document this context with only the aliases,  
… and leave aside the prefixes, which will raise the issue of "why this one and not that one".  
… Arguably, a few of them (rdf, owl) could be kept,  
… but they are only used by RDF geeks who know what to do.  

### 6. Adjourn
{: #section6}

---


### 7. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): Approve Minutes of previous call: [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-02-07-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-02-07-json-ld)
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): Automatically approve call minutes from now on 1 week after the call, as the calls are not focused on normative content
* [Resolution #3](#resolution3): Continue to defer work on context metadata (syntax #108)
