---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-02-21
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2020-02-21
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-02-21-json-ld",
        "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2020-02-21",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2020-02-21",
            "endDate": "2020-02-21",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Benjamin Young"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Harold Solbrig"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Benjamin Young"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gregg Kellogg"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Pierre-Antoine Champin"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ruben Taelman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tim Cole"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David I. Lehn"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***
{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2020-02-21

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2020Feb/0022.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/02/21-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Gregg Kellogg, Pierre-Antoine Champin, Ruben Taelman, Tim Cole, Dave Longley, David I. Lehn, Benjamin Young, Harold Solbrig

**Regrets:** Ivan Herman, Rob Sanderson

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Benjamin Young

**Scribe(s):** Harold Solbrig, Benjamin Young

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Benjamin Young:* Meeting Agenda 2020-02-21: [https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2020Feb/0022.html](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2020Feb/0022.html)

### 1. Scribe Selection
{: #section1}

### 2. Announcement / Reminders?
{: #section2}

**Harold Solbrig:** I posted something on the mailing list about a semantic web meeting in Raleigh  
… I've got 90 minutes to say good things about JSON-LD  
… I can fill the 90 minutes, but wanted to share the opportunity with others who might want to chip in  

**Gregg Kellogg:** there's some past material that might be useful  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://json-ld.org/learn.html](https://json-ld.org/learn.html)

**Harold Solbrig:** yeah, I've been digging through those, but hope to take a different approach  
… I'm going to go from the RDF side and then to JSON-LD  
… which is what finally helped me understand it all  
… 90 minutes is a long time, and I'd love other contributors  

**Gregg Kellogg:** would be great to get these on json-ld.org  

**Harold Solbrig:** yeah, that'd be great.  

**Benjamin Young:** sadly can't make it, but wish I could  

**Harold Solbrig:** David Booth is presenting content on Easier RDF  

**Gregg Kellogg:** yeah, that's a community group  

**Harold Solbrig:** yeah, much of that seems covered by JSON-LD  
… and it's just a matter of understanding what you can do.  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://github.com/w3c/EasierRDF](https://github.com/w3c/EasierRDF)

**Benjamin Young:** Ruben got his PhD  
… . loud applause  

### 3. Issues
{: #section3}

#### 3.1. [monitor] Consider context by reference with metadata
{: #section3-1}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/security-review/issues/24](https://github.com/w3c/security-review/issues/24)

> *Benjamin Young:* Born out of [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/108](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/108)

**Benjamin Young:** I think it was plh who posted this issue, not sure what solicited the issue  
… issue 108 discussed last week  
… if you are curious, subscribe to it  
… we should watch in case conversation begins before we hear about it  
… Ivan put out transition request for CR  

#### 3.2. Transition request for syntax and api https://github.com/w3c/transitions/issues/230
{: #section3-2}

**Benjamin Young:** formal request -- subscribe if you are interested in monitoring its progress  

**Gregg Kellogg:** effective pub data needs updated  
… will also be publishing an update to the framing document. All three have CR end date extended to March 30  
… so far mine is the only implementation report in there. jsonld.js should be ready soon  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-api/reports/](https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-api/reports/)

**Benjamin Young:** we expect other IR's to submit reports as described in this document  
… anyone willing to jump in on testing their implementation  

**robensworks:** report on streaming parser - 83% of the to-rdf spec tests pass  
… majority of failing are due to type-scoped context, still needs implementation  

**Dave Longley:** The only thing jsonld.js needs is the html piece -- also a bit of framing  
… could put an interim report up there  

**Gregg Kellogg:** if we have incomplete reports, it gives a sense of progress  

**Ruben Taelman:** I think I can run reports later today  

**Harold Solbrig:** is `@included` implemented?  

**David I. Lehn:** it's done, but not released yet  

**Harold Solbrig:** some of the stuff we're doing will be much prettier once that stuff shows up  
… we're using it to tack on an ontology header  
… right now we're using `@graph` which makes peoples brains hurt  

**David I. Lehn:** we should be close  

**Harold Solbrig:** as an aside, we forked the playground and put samples in for our use cases  

**David I. Lehn:** yeah...the playground is out of date...and it'd be great to get fresh content there  

**Harold Solbrig:** some of these are specific to us, but may be helpful to others  
… it might encourage others to use the playground other places  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* [https://github.com/schemaorg/schemaorg/issues/2468](https://github.com/schemaorg/schemaorg/issues/2468)

**Benjamin Young:** There is an issue with schema.org conneg  

**Gregg Kellogg:** recommends that the highest priority context type ... results in getting html, which is wrong  
… hopefully there will be an update on their site.  

**Benjamin Young:** python code has been merged -- an hour ago  

**Gregg Kellogg:** merge references something in my implementation.  

**Benjamin Young:** you may be able to rerun the tests shortly  
… On to issues  

#### 3.3. Suggestion about `@prefix` https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/329
{: #section3-3}

**Harold Solbrig:** ah yes. that was quite a discovery  
… some of the prefixes an upstream group used weren't making it through  
… we chased it down to an errata on 1.0  
… if the URI didn't end in `#` or `/`, then it was being treated different  

**Gregg Kellogg:** gendelim characters  

**Harold Solbrig:** before that errata came through, they were doing all sorts of things with URIs  
… one part of the issue is related to 1.0  
… and hopefully anything we do for 1.1 can be back rev'd  
… we first looked at 1.1's expanded context form processing  
… we started using `@prefix: true` to call these out  
… but folks are using JSON parsers as well as JSON-LD parsers  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* `”CHEBI”: {“@id”: "http://example.org/CHEBI_”, “@prefix”: true}`

**Harold Solbrig:** i.e. they're only using strings for prefix values  
… `"CHEBI": "http://...."`  
… one proposed alternative was `@prefix: true` on the surrounding `@context` object  
… but in further discussions with the group, it still gives them some major work to do  
… what they asked (and I think makes sense) was, can we add a parameter to the API as if it was `@prefix: true`  
… now, I'd still like to look at the `@prefix` on the surrounding `@context` object as it organizes the intent  
… it's otherwise not always obvious what the author meant  
… but in the immediate term, if we could get something at the API level, that would be helpful  
… we forked jsonld.js and made this change, and got it working for this communities use case  

**Gregg Kellogg:** sadly, the problem we face is that we're in our second round of CR  
… and have been in feature freeze for sometime  
… and all of these are normative changes  
… so that would mean either a third CR  
… or postpone what we're doing to address some of these other late-breaking suggestions  
… there's a few things here:  
… `@prefix` directly on `@context`  
… your API parameter--which I'm less in favor of, but understand the motivation of  
… if Ivan were here, he would not be pleased  
… and I'm not sure how we would address such late breaking changes  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** big +1 to what gkellogg just said  
… seems to me there might be another solution that might be as breaking  
… that could perhaps even be considered non-normative  
… the errata on 1.0 was to avoid any arbitrary IRI to be used as a prefix  
… but the use case here isn't about that  
… they're consistently using an underscore...corect?  

**Harold Solbrig:** sadly, no. it ends in `_`, `=`, and even `:` or alphanumeric characters  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** gendelim includes `:` at least  
… but alphanumerics...no...  

> *Gregg Kellogg:* `gen-delims  = ":" / "/" / "?" / "#" / "[" / "]" / “@“`

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** my idea was to "extend" the use of gen-delims in this case  
… but that sounds like it won't work  

**Harold Solbrig:** this was an early adopter community, and I'd hate to break this for them  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** so, my proposal would be...asking the group around CR compliance....  
… that the intention of the gen-delim choice would be preserved even if we proposed extending that list of characters  

**Gregg Kellogg:** we specifically call out a lot of this use in the docs...  
… we could do some of this at the API level, but I think it's still normative changes  
… really it's the prefix: true behaviour that seems necessary  
… it's not a technical question really  
… it'll be normative regardless  
… and I don't see how we could do that without doing another CR  

> *Dave Longley:* do we still have time to push CR #2 back? and if so ... how much time would we need?

**Benjamin Young:** I am not a CR cop and don't know what we can and can't do  
… I second harold on supporting the new community  
… this is not the first group to get tangled up in this  
… probably there is a need to address this  
… we need a staff contact to make this call from a staff contact  
… we may have to table it until Ivan comes back  

**Dave Longley:** do we still have time to push second CR back and how much time do we need  
… which gets to next issue. Want to avoid slow drip drip drip...  
… can we add a legacy flag which allows transitioning?  
… I don't see any other way than pushing CR back  
… we should also talk about the next issue as well, which would also push CR back  

**Benjamin Young:** I do think that situation is a mix of two paths -- yea, that's not quite JSON-LD vs. changing everything about how JSON-LD vs. bumping CR back  

**Gregg Kellogg:** What we're looking at is calendar math w/ June deadline, are we at the point where we're going to have to ask for an extension  

**Benjamin Young:** that used to be a bad thing, but maybe not so much  
… now that we're going to print, folks are starting to dive in. Very real reasons to get an extension done ...  
… propose we table this issue and 379, as likely cause for CR extension, will become broad topic for next week  

#### 3.4. Inconsistent management of empty terms https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/379
{: #section3-4}

**Benjamin Young:** API topic - Issue 379  

**Gregg Kellogg:** this is not a normative change. We say term may not be an empty string  
… we just don't have any tests to validate processors.  
… adding that doesn't represent the same problem with prefixes  

**Harold Solbrig:** as that was discovered, I asked about their use cases for `""`  
… they weren't actually sure, but they wouldn't object if they were flagged as errors  
… they're happy if the processor flags the errors and they'll fix the errors  

**Benjamin Young:** you mentioned they have "plain JSON" parsers also?  

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* this is already rejected by the playground

**Harold Solbrig:** yeah, but here it doesn't matter. That was on the `@prefix` side of things  
… they're using a Java based JSON-LD processor and rdflib JSON-Ld  

**Benjamin Young:** any actions?  

**Ruben Taelman:** One possible why they used it is that they're coming from formats like turtle  
… which would be similar to this.  

**Harold Solbrig:** yeah. it's the same sort of issue we face with `@base`  
… they import lots of `@context` files  
… and `@default` doesn't make sense for them  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I don't think this is close `wont-fix`  
… I think we need to make sure processors throw proper errors  
… and have specifics about it and tests  

**Benjamin Young:** This isn't close, don't fix. Should be add a test to make sure the processors generate an error  
… but that should be non-normative  

> **Proposed resolution: pchampin to send in a PR for implementations to raise proper errors around `""` + tests** *(Benjamin Young)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

#### 3.5. Expansion does not take property-scoped contexts for nested properties into account
{: #section3-5}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/380](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-api/issues/380)

**Benjamin Young:** dave mentioned that this might be potentially worth another CR  

**Dave Longley:** I am surprised that this isn't something we already cover -- @gkellogg -- will this one change get us to where we want to be  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I think it is similar to last one. We don't say anything about it, but it doesn't mean it is a new feature  
… for the most part, suggestion works for expansion. Haven't looked at compaction  
… implemenation impact is that you have to check impact when iterating through.  
… I think we could handle this as needs tests and tweak, not a normative change.  

**Dave Longley:** I would like a resolution from group that this is non-normative, we will handle this  
… If we agree that it won't effect CR, we can postpone  

> **Proposed resolution: #380 would not need normative changes, but does needs tests. We will discuss further next week to confirm.** *(Benjamin Young)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: #380 would not need normative changes, but does needs tests. We will discuss further next week to confirm.***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

> ***Resolution #2: pchampin to send in a PR for implementations to raise proper errors around `""` + tests***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

### 4. Adjourn
{: #section4}

---


### 5. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): #380 would not need normative changes, but does needs tests. We will discuss further next week to confirm.
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): pchampin to send in a PR for implementations to raise proper errors around `""` + tests
