---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-01-17
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2020-01-17
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-17-json-ld",
        "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2020-01-17",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2020-01-17",
            "endDate": "2020-01-17",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Rob Sanderson"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Gregg Kellogg"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Rob Sanderson"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Pierre-Antoine Champin"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David I. Lehn"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Benjamin Young"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Manu Sporny"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Harold Solbrig"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tim Cole"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Adam Soroka"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***
{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2020-01-17

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2020Jan/0009.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/01/17-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Rob Sanderson, Ivan Herman, Gregg Kellogg, Dave Longley, Pierre-Antoine Champin, David I. Lehn, Benjamin Young, Manu Sporny, Harold Solbrig, Tim Cole, Adam Soroka

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Rob Sanderson

**Scribe(s):** Gregg Kellogg, Rob Sanderson

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Adam Soroka:* going to be about 15 minutes late

### 1. Approve minutes of previous call
{: #section1}

> *Rob Sanderson:* PROPOSAL Approve minutes of previous call [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-10-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-10-json-ld)

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +0

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: Approve minutes of previous call [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-10-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-10-json-ld)***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 2. Syntax #323
{: #section2}

> *Rob Sanderson:* link: [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/323](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-syntax/issues/323)

**Ivan Herman:** This is really pchampin’s area, but there is a problem with how we define the JSON datatype (value space) is that we convert the JSON text into a datatypes defined in XSD and are used in RDF.  
… There are some funny situations that come up, where for example “1”^^rdf:JSON and “1”^^xsd:integer are the same, which is wrong.  
… THe rdf:HTML datatype uses the DOM, which doesn’t revert to primitive types. We don’t have anything like that in JSON land.  
… I think the only correct way to do it is to say that the value space is a JSON string. This seems odd, but really it’s just a JSON string per the spec.  
… Then we have a way to compare two values, as defined by JSON. We do indeed have a mixture of data in JSON for which we have no control.  
… I think that such a change might be substantial and we’d need to go through a more formal CR update.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** I agree with ivan; I’m not sure we can take your solution, as the JSON RFC may not describe the semantics of equality.  

**Ivan Herman:** We do have in our space a way to compare two JSON literals.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** We had to do this because the RFC doesn’t. The most natural thing was to refer to other types. Hence the confusion.  

**Ivan Herman:** The comparison process goes into converting to the internal representation for comparison. Otherwise, the value space is a string.  

**Rob Sanderson:** The question is whether "1"^^xsd:integer === "1"^^rdf:json ?  

**Ivan Herman:** The way we define the value space is sort of a union of integers, booleans and and so forth. That’s wrong.  

**Rob Sanderson:** There is no expectation that the syntax of the JSON is comparable to the semantics of other datatypes. You don’t need to understand that “true” is a valid boolean in JSON to implement the rdf:JSON datatype.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** I didn’t think it was “wrong”, but it opens a Pandora’s block regarding other specs. It could be expected that OWL processors recognize this value, which could be a problem.  
… There might be issues with numbers which might make it _actually_ wrong, as numbers are not very clear.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to Ivan

> *Dave Longley:* +1 rdf:JSON is opaque

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

**Ivan Herman:** The whole reason we went into this is because we want some portion of the JSON-LD to be opaque for RDF processing; our intention was that, but by turning it into an active datatype, we do something that wasn’t intended.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** I'll echo ivan's point. Point was not to make a literal that should be compared with other things, but is simply JSON  

> *Dave Longley:* just a way for JSON to travel in RDF

**Gregg Kellogg:** because of normalization, which is not normative, every processor would create the same literal representation. Should have said that the value space is the string representing that serialization  
… and to compare as strings.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to ivan

**Ivan Herman:** In an ideal world where there was a canonical JSON spec, we could say that the value space is a canonical version of the JSON serialization.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to "value space is a canonical version of the JSON serialization"

**Ivan Herman:** We do define a canonicalization.  
… Then we could be a bit more precise based on our C14N description.  

> **Proposed resolution: Change the definition of the value space of rdf:JSON datatype to remove the reference to the internal datatypes and replace with a string which is the canonical form of the serialization of the JSON** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

**Dave Longley:** Seems like the right thing to do to me.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> ***Resolution #2: Change the definition of the value space of rdf:JSON datatype to remove the reference to the internal datatypes and replace with a string which is the canonical form of the serialization of the JSON***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

**Rob Sanderson:** This is normative text that changes how the datatype is defined/interpreted, I’d have a hard time arguing that it’s an editorial issue.  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** As we’re nit-picking, we should not define it as a subset of xsd:string representations, but as a separate value space.  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

**Ivan Herman:** I wasn’t suggesting we republish now.  

**Rob Sanderson:** But, we do think it’s significant enough to re-enter CR.  

**Ivan Herman:** What gkellogg said, when kasei has “finished”, we can do a republication.  

> **Proposed resolution: Above resolution is a significant change, and that we will need to re-start CR. Re-publication would when current commenters issues have been addressed.** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Dave Longley:* +1

**Rob Sanderson:** kasei is using PERL to start with, and will port to a more modern language later.  

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Gregg Kellogg:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Harold Solbrig:* +1

> ***Resolution #3: Above resolution is a significant change, and that we will need to re-start CR. Re-publication would when current commenters issues have been addressed.***
{: #resolution3 .resolution}

**Ivan Herman:** Is there a minimum period of implementation? Do we have to delay based on that limitation?  

> *Dave Longley:* i think you can do a really short CR, especially if changes are not significant

> *Rob Sanderson:* From process 2019:

> *Rob Sanderson:* > Revising a Candidate Recommendation ... must specify the deadline for further comments, which must be at least 28 days after publication, and should be longer for complex documents,

> *Rob Sanderson:* [https://www.w3.org/2019/Process-20190301/#revised-cr](https://www.w3.org/2019/Process-20190301/#revised-cr)

**Ivan Herman:** 28 days is not that bad. Our original deadline was end-of-February.  
… We’d need to postpone the deadline until mid-March if we miss that.  
… We’re still well within our window.  
… We could, in theory, republish syntax without API, but probably best until review is finished.  

**Rob Sanderson:** We can probably consolidate our changes into something simpler.  

**Ivan Herman:** Let’s make them clean.  

### 3. DID WG and JSON-LD
{: #section3}

**Manu Sporny:** It;s again that time of year when a W3C WG is going to re-do JSON-LD :)  
… The DID WG adopted the WG spec some time ago; more recently, there’s a group from the Identity Foundation that says they don’t need JSON-LD, that it adds complexity and security issues and the extensibility model is to complex, etc.  

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/142](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/pull/142)

**Manu Sporny:** There all have rational answers, and they don’t really understand JSON-LD to start with.  
… As an example, this PR makes processing more explicit, and it has over 103 comments.  

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2020Jan/0013.html](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2020Jan/0013.html)

**Manu Sporny:** We built the spec so you don’t need to run a JSON-LD processor.  
… (Note summary is issues).  
… It’s sort of like “XML namespace are bad” and JSON-LD is don’t the same, and the spec (DID) doesn’t need it.  
… In the past, we try to address concerns one by one in the WG, but that takes time.  
… This means that going into feature freeze in March will be difficult, as there are other things to spend time on.  
… It comes up time and time again. (activity pub, credentials, now DiD).  
… I don’t think there’s a clean solution, it’s more social than technical.  
… For example, if you stick to a subset, you don’t need to run through processing.  
… But, that doesn’t seem to be “good enough”.  
… The DiD WG meeting is in 2 weeks, and we’ll discuss there.  

**Benjamin Young:** There’s also another call today, and then there’s another call to discuss JSON-LD before F2F.  
… If you could give us a link to those issues, it would help.  
… I wanted to bring this up as it’s a perennial issue, but it’s always a big time sink.  

> *Dave Longley:* (we've explained to the group that by using `@protected` and an unchanging core `@context` JSON-only software can hard-code checking the `@context` field for a specific string and then just use the JSON keys they know like usual, but this isn't "taking" or isn't good enough at the moment)

> *Dave Longley:* (either because it isn't understood or it isn't "believed")

**Benjamin Young:** There’s a myth that none uses namespaces in JSON, but it’s really done all the time.  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to bigbluehat

**Benjamin Young:** We need something that can be used to counter such claims. Going down the pure JSON path create it’s own problems.  

**Gregg Kellogg:** My observation is one thing that keeps coming up is the remote loading of contexts. A profile that did not allow that might satisfy a lot of those issues.  
… it strikes me that something necessary is a note that can encapsulate these various things. A common profile that might be more normative than a note  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to the idea that JSON-only software/special verification software should "install" contexts locally and never load them

**Gregg Kellogg:** then we can refer to it once and not keep coming back to it  

> *Dave Longley:* remotely

**Rob Sanderson:** I could be on your next call if it would help.  
… What can we do that will help?  

**Manu Sporny:** There are a couple of things that feed into it. When you talk to each person, they have different motivations, but their solution is to just use JSON.  
… They haven’t yet walked down the road to need such extensibility.  
… Some people are being ignorant because they have a single simple use case, and are inflicting their “solution” on everyone else.  
… Best was is to engage with that individual to expose other problems that JSON-LD solves.  
… This WG could engage in those issue discussions, so it’s not just me and dlongley being “apologists”  
… The other thing is to be involved more directly in the DiD working group. There is a minority of participants who understand JSON-LD.  
… The people who are using it are doing so on faith. When we have breakouts there is a small minority of people that understand why we’re using JSON-LD, and it creates an awkward social dynamic.  
… In the long-term, the assumptions on writing best practices is that people will read it, which they won’t.  
… The fundamental issue is that there isn’t enough JSON-LD tooling. On Android, there isn’t a good Java processor, so they complain.  
… Also, in RDF Dataset Normalization, those libraries don’t exist in C++/C, and so people can’t do bindings.  
… As a result, they view it as being overly complex. Note that everyone uses SSL and don’t complain about the complexity, because they don’t have to think about it.  
… We’re several years into JSON-LD and still don’t have pervasive implementations. The browser folks have the tooling, so it’s not an issue there.  
… It’s the embedded space where we need implementations.  
… Fundamentally, it’s a tooling issue.  

**Ivan Herman:** I need to mind my dual role, but for the next DiD meeting, I don’t know if it would help if there were suddenly 3-4 more people joining the call. The call is to collect issues to be discussed at F2F.  

> *Manu Sporny:* I completely agree with Ivan, showing up on that call will help JSON-LD WG understand the concerns from the people that have them.

**Ivan Herman:** In the last call, we went into some technical meat, but that’s not the goal right now.  
… azaroth and bigbluehat, I’d love to see you regularly attend, but maybe not just for this call.  
… I agree with manu’s discussion on tooling; We had a similar duality in publishing, but it wasn’t as heavily discussed.  
… We discussed some processing of the context, but ignore the heavy usage of JSON-LD.  
… It turned out to be much less straightforward to use a full library as turning things into a graph resulted in another set of missing tools.  
… What this group could do is to get a huge improvement in the tooling, even in JavaScript.  
… Even that rdf.js is hard to use for this community.  

**Dave Longley:** We made a couple of mistakes in naming that are hard to change. Such as “remote contexts” could have been called “shared” or “external”; maybe the spec could add some non-normative notes to show that they don’t necessarily need to be retrieved remotely.  
… So, you just “npm install” the packages and they’re available to an implementation,.  
… If we can change the discussion around these things it would help.  

**Harold Solbrig:** I represent some communities that come from a very different space. For example healthcare uses FIHR, which is very much RDF/OWL focused. We’re trying to put these things together, and JSON-LD proved to be necessary to make this happen.  
… We’re putting together a set of tutorials on why RDF is in your future, because if you don’t have it, you’ll need to re-invent it.  

> *Benjamin Young:* +1 to dlongley's suggestion for something like `npm install did-context` -- i.e. contexts can be "installed" they don't have to be remote

**Harold Solbrig:** We can assign semantics to things fairly easily using JSON-LD.  
… There’s a lot of enthusiasm about this, and our group is quite excited.  

**Rob Sanderson:** Would it be valuable to be present and silent?  

**Manu Sporny:** It would be valuable to for this WG to show up and sit and listen.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1000 to sitting and listening for this stuff and helping understand where others are coming from

**Ivan Herman:** In our communication there’s an under-exploited feature is that the context can be delivered to a JSON file via HTTP headers.  

> *Dave Longley:* notes that DID Documents don't necessarily travel over HTTP

**Ivan Herman:** If you have a person working only in JSON a well setup server can deliver JSON easily, and we don’t talk about it.  

> *Dave Longley:* but useful in other areas

**Rob Sanderson:** Meaning Link headers.  

---


### 4. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): Approve minutes of previous call [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-10-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-10-json-ld)
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): Change the definition of the value space of rdf:JSON datatype to remove the reference to the internal datatypes and replace with a string which is the canonical form of the serialization of the JSON
* [Resolution #3](#resolution3): Above resolution is a significant change, and that we will need to re-start CR. Re-publication would when current commenters issues have been addressed.