---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-02-07
title: JSON-LD Working Group Telco — 2020-02-07
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-02-07-json-ld",
        "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2020-02-07",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "JSON-LD Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2020-02-07",
            "endDate": "2020-02-07",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Benjamin Young"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Rob Sanderson"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Benjamin Young"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ruben Taelman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tim Cole"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David I. Lehn"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Adam Soroka"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Pierre-Antoine Champin"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# JSON-LD Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}
***– DRAFT Minutes –***
{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2020-02-07

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-json-ld-wg/2020Feb/0001.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/02/07-json-ld-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Rob Sanderson, Ruben Taelman, Benjamin Young, Ivan Herman, Tim Cole, David I. Lehn, Adam Soroka, Pierre-Antoine Champin

**Regrets:** Gregg Kellogg

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Benjamin Young

**Scribe(s):** Rob Sanderson, Benjamin Young

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. approve minutes of previous call https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-24-json-ld
{: #section1}

> **Proposed resolution: approve minutes of previous call [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-24-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-24-json-ld)** *(Rob Sanderson)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> ***Resolution #1: approve minutes of previous call [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-24-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-24-json-ld)***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

### 2. Announcements / Reminders
{: #section2}

**Benjamin Young:** Any announcements / reminders?  
… have a specific ask  
… No? Any implementation status reports?  

**Rob Sanderson:** so, Greg (who works with Rob) has gone through more of the spec  
… but that's not new news  
… in Python, though, there's a separate from the PyLD project and they've been making good progress  
… rdflib and rdflib-jsonld  

**Ruben Taelman:** Have been working on the streaming parser implementation lately  
… things are going well. Don't see any major issues to parse in a streaming way  
… most of the spec tests currently pass, so hope to be done with it by the end of the month  

**Benjamin Young:** Very valuable! ANy other news?  

> *Benjamin Young:* add to [https://json-ld.org/#developers-description](https://json-ld.org/#developers-description)

**Benjamin Young:** one thing to ask is if anyone directly or through other groups know of things, we should make sure it gets added to the developer description in json-ld.org  
… including tagging for what they support  
… to help people decide which to use. If you can take it on, great, otherwise I will try to do it  

**Ruben Taelman:** working on the parser now, will do serializer later but shouldn't be any issues  

**Benjamin Young:** rdflib. PHP is getting stale. Ruby is good with Gregg  

**David I. Lehn:** We don't use PHP actively unless someone picks up the torch it'll stay where it is  

**Benjamin Young:** I think there was work going on in java  
… don't know about the bottom row in general  
… any status would be appreciated, now or later in issues in the json-ld.org repo  
… any other reminders?  

### 3. Issues
{: #section3}

**Benjamin Young:** Dug through syntax, api and framing ... didn't find anything discussable, it's all editorial  
… pierre-antoine, anything you want to raise or highlight?  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** Nothing to discuss :)  

### 4. Best Practices
{: #section4}

**Benjamin Young:** Adam has done a lot of work on BP issues recently  

**Adam Soroka:** Mostly workflow issues -- some duplicates. Was tapping people about new sections to move forward  
… example for order in the context matters, where it normally doesn't  
… but does in one particular place.  
… Some other very similar ones, where there's some uncertainty should have an example  
… eg language maps and multilingual, with the choices and what you get from each  
… other than that there's some streaming ones, should close one, and just a mention that streaming is possible  
… but it has to obey certain rules to work  
… those are the biggest ones that I saw  
… a few smaller ones but mostly typos  

**Benjamin Young:** Why don't we look at streaming  

#### 4.1. Streaming best practice
{: #section4-1}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-bp/issues/3](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-bp/issues/3)

**Ruben Taelman:** historically issue 4 was earlier, but in a different tracker and then moved to BP repository  
… I made 3 as a way to summarize the things that are needed to parse efficiently in a streaming manner  
… I think that we can close 4, but I should go through it in more detail to make sure we don't lose anything  

> *ajs6f>* +1 to closing #4

**Ruben Taelman:** that isn't in #3  
… It would be safe to write some text about those guidelines that I mention in #3, but Gregg appeared to agree with most of it except for the properties  
… the special case where contexts are applied to specific properties, and we would need some more work  
… that we should still look into  

**Benjamin Young:** Are you up for doing some of the work for the doc?  

**Ruben Taelman:** Can help with that, but next 2 weeks are very busy  
… only be able to work on it after that, if that's okay  

**Benjamin Young:** Some time is better than never! Even just sections and rough pointers for where to flesh out and what you have in mind  
… any content is great and it can be polished later  
… in #4 Adam suggested that this could be a stand alone note, but I don't think we have time to add a new note  
… It would also need promotion  

**Adam Soroka:** The impetus behind it was that it's not part of the specs directly, but we do want to specify precisely  
… in an ideal world it would be nice to have a separate formal note, but not a spec, and the BP doc would just refer to it  
… but whatever mention in the BP doc should be informal rather than pseudo-normative  
… don't think we have time for a careful spec either, especially in a BP doc  

**Benjamin Young:** Get what we can into the BP doc  

**Adam Soroka:** Can potentially publish a note later. Can see what use people make of the notes in the BP doc  

**Benjamin Young:** Ruben, you mentioned wanting to close #4  
… should we leave that one open?  
… You wanted to go through issue 4 to see what was there  

**Ruben Taelman:** Assign it to me and I can see if we can close it  

**Benjamin Young:** Happy to leave opening and closing to you  
… can leave #3 open as the primary topic  
… has a good looking outline  

**Ruben Taelman:** about the note, I also think it's valuable to have it at some point. Maybe not in the scope of this WG. Problem I have now is that when I discover JSON-LD docs I want to parse, I have to assume that they are not stream-enabled to be parsed  
… so I parse them the normal way, and can't use the optimizations for streaming parsing  
… good to add a specific content type or similar to say that it can be parsed in a streaming way  

**Benjamin Young:** Maybe a profile?  

**Rob Sanderson:** it seems to ajs6f's point about formality/informality of the BP...  
… that if we wanted to have event a profile parameter/IRI, that it would raise it to a Note  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to Rob

**Rob Sanderson:** because we'd want to refer to it from the IANA profile  
… so this does seem like something to consider  
… I agree with rubensworks that if you don't know you can stream it, you won't  
… so there needs to be something in the header that tells you it's possible  
… and perhaps we need to discuss priority of the notes  

**Benjamin Young:** I think with priority of notes it's who works on what  
… if they show up then they've been prioritized :)  
… if folks want to work on streaming, that's great. We're not stealing time from one to the other  
… Have the time to discuss  
… Ivan is this something we can do?  

**Ivan Herman:** We can add as many notes as we can write  

**Ruben Taelman:** What are the requirements for such a note?  
… should be more extensive than a section in a BP doc  

**Benjamin Young:** I think the biggest part is the profile parameters section, but start with whatever you have  
… Is there more plumbing we should set up, Ivan?  

**Ivan Herman:** In a note we can do what we want.  

**Ruben Taelman:** Where should it live? Also in the BP repo?  

**Benjamin Young:** Maybe we should use it as a notes repo  

**Ivan Herman:** what do you guys want?  
… don't expect me to make the decision :) To make a new repo is 10 minutes max. You tell me  

**Adam Soroka:** Was going to ask if we change it to a notes repo, then the BP is a note?  

**Benjamin Young:** It's a note already  
… the only one we have content for  

**Ivan Herman:** the only practical thing, if we want to use things like echidna, it makes it harder if there's 5 notes in one repo  
… but if we publish only once, it's not a big deal  

**Rob Sanderson:** a thought about publishing frequency  
… for a note, having lots and lots of working drafts seems useful to draw attention to it and possibly get input  
… so, I'd prefer we set it up with the best tooling to get drafts into the public  

**Ivan Herman:** we can set up echidna that every commit to master is auto published  

**Benjamin Young:** That sounds great  
… a repo for each note  

**Ivan Herman:** One for BP, one for CBOR. Now there's a nice bikeshed question ... what name for the repo?  

**Benjamin Young:** json-ld-stream ?  

> *Benjamin Young:* our repos [https://github.com/w3c?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=json-ld-&type=&language=](https://github.com/w3c?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=json-ld-&type=&language=)

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

> **Proposed resolution: add json-ld-streaming repo; automate all note repos with echidna to publish on each commit** *(Benjamin Young)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1

> *Ivan Herman:* +1

> *Adam Soroka:* +1

> *Ruben Taelman:* +1

> *Benjamin Young:* +1

> *Tim Cole:* +1

> *David I. Lehn:* +1

**Ivan Herman:** first we have to go tyhrough the pedestrian way, and then we can publish each time  

**Benjamin Young:** some time in the next couple of weeks we make a drafty working draft  

> ***Resolution #2: add json-ld-streaming repo; automate all note repos with echidna to publish on each commit***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

**Ivan Herman:** that's something we have a plan to republish CR, and not via echidna but a new CR  
… I have some time constraints about that. I sent a separate note, but I will have a trip to the US at the end of Feb and then a week out 10th of March  
… so the timing might have some consequences  
… that said, the whole procedure has been moved to github, so I believe that chairs can also initiate a FPWD by making an issue  
… and FPWD is more automatic than anything else  
… but still a discussion to have with the webmaster  

**Rob Sanderson:** if it's a matter of a week or so, then no need to rush  

**Benjamin Young:** can always use GH previews for discussion in the mean time  
… ivan do you want an action for the repo?  

> ***Action #1: set up json-ld-streaming repo (Ivan Herman)***
{: #action1 .action}

#### 4.2. CBOR Note?
{: #section4-2}

**Benjamin Young:** Okay another issue...  
… is anyone working on CBOR note?  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** A number of issues were raised, he intends to work on it  
… still have to process the issues that were sent  
… and interested to contribute  

**Benjamin Young:** awesome  
… one side note, GH will not automatically subscribe you to the repos, so go in and watch them  
… lots of people watching the CBOR note  

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-bp/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-bp/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc)

**Benjamin Young:** Go through the BP in most active order  
… done streaming, first one is ordering impact on protected  

#### 4.3. issue on protected
{: #section4-3}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-bp/issues/2](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-bp/issues/2)

**Ruben Taelman:** this issue was created to clarify that for protection of terms that order is important  
… in the first snippet, the overriding of the term would result in a failure, but if you reverse the contexts, the failure doesn't happen  
… so clarify order is important  

**Benjamin Young:** where you introduce the protection has an effect  
… protected in the middle of the list is different from at the end  
… anyone want to help on this?  
… dlehn did you work on this?  
… Or was it more dlongley?  

**David I. Lehn:** I'd have to take a look. Partly involved but not core.  

**Ruben Taelman:** I can also help  

**Benjamin Young:** that woudl be super. I can assign to you for now  
… thank you very much  
… streaming got some love, so lets look at #13  

#### 4.4. generic discussion on bp issues
{: #section4-4}

**Benjamin Young:** JSON-LD to RDF to JSON-LD ... what can happen with things being moved around  
… anyone has a handle on this that could write it up?  
… [crickets] ...  
… feels pretty core to JSON-LD developer. don't want crickets on every issue  
… what's the best way to handle it? All are of interest and we all want to see them written ... how to put them into the path?  
… Ruben was dealing with the streaming head on, so taking notes in public  
… anyone working on this stuff and could do the same?  

**David I. Lehn:** A question ... what sort of text do we want? More like a tutorial, a teaching thing?  

**Benjamin Young:** I think it's what you should know in order to do it well. Do this, don't do that  

**David I. Lehn:** Might want to show why the other options are bad, and then it turns into a book  

**Benjamin Young:** more minimal versions are fine. Just want some content that we as a group are aware that some things are tricky  
… doesn't need to be a book  
… looking for draft content that can make its way in and then be edited  
… json-ld continues to take it on the chin for people not understanding how to use it properly  
… in VC, everything got assigned to someone, not to do the work, but to find someone who can do the work  
… perhaps we need to come at this another way  
… perhaps involving the CG  

**Rob Sanderson:** I think involving the CG could be an interesting way  
… but the question is how to organize it  
… if not via these calls  
… we could try the mailing list  
… but it's pretty quiet there  
… so probably not many folks would show up  
… one way to pick one issue and at least make progress--per call--to try and get notes down during the call  
… and then we can tidy those up later  

**Benjamin Young:** +1 on that  
… so maybe we can use call time for getting notes down  
… anyone up for that?  
… can do a blended approach - a larger piece of work can be handed out, but for smaller ones we can note-jam and (e.g.) get the round tripping covered  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to approach

**Benjamin Young:** does that seem okay?  

> *Pierre-Antoine Champin:* +1

#### 4.5. issue on RDF roundtripping
{: #section4-5}

> *Benjamin Young:* [https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-bp/issues/13](https://github.com/w3c/json-ld-bp/issues/13)

**Benjamin Young:** 13 minutes left ...  
… Lets look at 13, the round tripping one  
… take a minute to go through comments together and then as people have thoughts, chime in  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** To be sure ... the original text of the issue mentions lists of lists which is out of date for lack of support  

**Benjamin Young:** BP should call out when one is required to accomplish it, people can already have json-ld content  

**Ivan Herman:** rob, I think you raised this ... what do we mean by round-tripping. Strictly rdf model level, or is it from a particular serialization and round trip back tot he closest one?  
… rdf has "wonderful" feature of a zillion different ways to express it  

**Rob Sanderson:** I was thinking that if you have JSON-LD and you parse it into the abstract graph  
… then manipulate it and re-serialize it, that you end up at the same place.  
… does all of the information in the JSON-LD make it into the RDF graph and then back into the output JSON-LD  
… and then there's framing to make sure you get it exactly into the same tree structure...or not  
… if you're JSON-LD with blank nodes and go into RDF and back into JSON-LD then those blank nodes will vanish  
… so work to be done on this issue is still correct  
… find the things that are important to note in these scenarios  
… and document in the best practice: if you want to have your data round-tripable, here's what you should and shouldn't do  
… and Gregg's comments that follow around array ordering is interesting...especially if you're thinking JSON  
… and thinking only JSON-LD then you get consistent blank node naming, but not if you go through RDF  

**Ivan Herman:** CURIE in JSON-LD then into Turtle, does the CURIE stay the same? or are the rules different?  

**Rob Sanderson:** I don't know  

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** the way I read this was round trip between rdf abstract syntax and json-ld  
… I don't know if I can round trip turtle to turtle  
… in fact I know that I can't, e.g. the curies, as the implementations don't have a notion of prefixes as they're not part of the abstract syntax  
… shouldn't talk about other syntaxes, only abstract and json-ld  

> *Rob Sanderson:* +1 to pa

**Pierre-Antoine Champin:** Maybe it's worth mentioning that ... other syntaxes have their own problems that we can't address  

**Benjamin Young:** Good points!  
… do we feel like we have a complete list on the issue?  
… or can we write in other issues to the issue  
… the things that we're up against and whether we can solve them  

**Rob Sanderson:** throw in whatever notes you can  

**Benjamin Young:** consolidate and summarize from what you've read above would be good  
… or just take that on to make sure the end of the issue we have something to take forward  
… rather than rereading the whole time  

### 5. next meetings
{: #section5}

**Benjamin Young:** next friday is valentine's day  

> *Rob Sanderson:* I am out the following week tho

**Benjamin Young:** meet on regular schedule  
… best practices and note jams ...we'll get better at it :)  

---


### 6. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): approve minutes of previous call [https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-24-json-ld](https://www.w3.org/2018/json-ld-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020/2020-01-24-json-ld)
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): add json-ld-streaming repo; automate all note repos with echidna to publish on each commit

### 7. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): set up json-ld-streaming repo (Ivan Herman)
